BEIRUT | Wed Apr 27 , 2011 10:19 am EDT BEIRUT -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - Syrian President Bashar al-Assad , who had boasted his country was immune to the unrest lashing the Arab world 's autocrats , is now fighting for political survival . 
The 45-year-old leader has tried economic carrots , political concessions and brute force to try to quell a popular upheaval that rights groups say has cost over 450 lives in six weeks . 
Syria , mired in its gravest crisis since Assad 's father crushed an armed Islamist revolt in 1982 , risks international opprobrium and sanctions for its repressive response . 
The Assad family 's grip on power looks at its shakiest in 30 years . 
Instability in Syria , fulcrum of several Middle Eastern conflicts , carries huge but as yet uncertain implications for its neighbors , notably Lebanon and Israel , and for the region . 
Here are some of the key risks to watch . 
What sparked the revolt was the arrest of 15 youngsters for scrawling anti-government slogans in the southern town of Deraa , where the first three deaths occurred on March 18 . 
Protests gradually spread across Syria as people demanded freedom from three decades of Baath Party rule , against a background of grievances over economic hardship and corruption . 
Assad , portraying unrest as the work of armed gangs paid by malign powers , replaced his government and coughed up a series of concessions that did not mollify protesters increasingly enraged by the bloodshed inflicted by security forces . 
Their initial chants for reform soon gave way to the battle cry of Arab uprisings that had already unseated the rulers of Egypt and Tunisia : `` The people want the downfall of the regime . '' 
On April 21 Assad ended 48 years of emergency law and scrapped a hated state security court , but the killing of 100 protesters the next day seemed to make these moves a mockery . 
Similarly , limited prisoner releases were counterbalanced by the detention of hundreds of other dissenters and protesters . 
Economic handouts and job creation promises failed to calm the resentment of many Syrians who believe only a small group of crony capitalists has benefited from Assad 's reforms , ostensibly aimed at overhauling an inefficient socialist-style economy . 
So far the armed forces and security services , many of whose commanders belong to Assad 's family and his minority Alawite community , appear to have remained loyal -- unlike in Egypt and Tunisia where the military helped usher presidents from power . 
Assad 's ousting is no foregone conclusion . 
His opponents may have breached the barrier of fear that has long underpinned Baathist rule , but ruthless repression could re-erect it . 
The president can also play the `` me-or-chaos '' card which resonates with many Syrians . 
Some fear that militant Islamists could fill any power vacuum , others that civil war might engulf their country , as in next-door Lebanon and Iraq in the past . 
-- Any signs of mutiny among the army and security forces -- Any signs of protesters taking up arms The United States has condemned Assad 's use of force -- he sent army tanks into Deraa and two suburbs of Damascus on April 25 -- but Western nations which launched air strikes on Muammar Gaddafi 's Libya have not acted against the Syrian leader . 
The Arab League , which swiftly suspended Libya 's membership over Gaddafi 's efforts to quell opposition , has remained silent on Syria , although it issued a blanket condemnation on April 26 of the use of force against pro-democracy Arab protesters . 
Western criticism of Assad 's crackdown was initially muted , partly because of fears that a collapse of his minority Alawite rule might lead to sectarian conflict with the Sunni majority or bring to power Islamist militants hostile to Israel . 
The United States , which had sought to isolate Syria after the 2005 assassination of Lebanese statesman Rafik al-Hariri , has more recently attempted to engage it , hoping to loosen its alliance with Iran and move it toward a peace deal with Israel . 
Neither policy proved very successful . 
Israel is in two minds . 
The removal of Assad , a foe who is allied with Iran and backs Lebanon 's Hezbollah and Palestinian Hamas and Islamic Jihad , would seem a bonus . 
Yet Assad and his father have kept the border mostly quiet since the 1973 war , even though Israel still occupies Syria 's Golan Heights . 
No country has much leverage over Syria . 
Even Turkey , which has developed close links with Damascus in the last few years , has seen Assad ignore its advice to enact reforms . 
The United States has kept sanctions on Syria since 2004 . 
Its European allies may now impose travel bans or asset freezes on the Syrian leadership . 
Any move for U.N. sanctions is likely to be opposed by veto-wielding Russia , an old ally of Syria . 
Iran could be a big loser if Assad 's rule collapses because Syria , its main Arab ally since 1980 , has facilitated Tehran 's efforts to build a Middle Eastern `` axis of resistance '' to Israel and the United States via Hezbollah , Hamas and Islamic Jihad . 
Lebanon , Iraq and other countries will worry that any ethnic or sectarian conflict in a destabilized Syria could spill across their borders , fuelling regional tensions between Arabs and Kurds , Christians and Muslims , or Sunnis and Shi'ites . 
\* Any Arab League position on Syria The turmoil will hit an economy grappling with unemployment , poverty , and water and power shortages , along with falling oil output and rapid population growth of 2.5 percent a year . 
The International Monetary Fund said on April 27 Syria was set for 3 percent growth in 2011 versus 3.2 percent in 2010 , with inflation reaching 6 percent against 4.4 percent last year and the fiscal deficit widening to 6.8 percent of GDP from 4.8 . 
The unrest has ravaged the tourism industry , one of Syria 's fastest-growing sectors , and may scare off foreign investors -- Syria has delayed bidding for its third mobile operator license , Saudi Telecom , one of the bidders , said on April 27 . 
A government goal of luring more than $ 40 billion in private investment to overhaul creaking infrastructure and create jobs over five years had looked implausible even before the protests , given corruption levels and uncertainty about the rule of law . 
Foreign direct investment fell to $ 1.4 billion in 2009 from $ 2.4 billion in 2008 , according to the World Bank . 
Syria , now a net oil importer , needs to invest in refineries to cut fuel import costs in a country that produces 380,000 barrels per day of crude , down from a 590,000 bpd peak in 1996 . 
Despite fiscal strains , Syria has opened the spending taps to try to calm discontent , cutting taxes on some foods , giving cash to poor families , reducing income tax , raising the minimum wage and extending health cover to civil service pensioners -- measures the IMF says will cost about 2 percent of GDP . 
Unemployment is officially 10 percent . 
Independent estimates say it is closer to 25 percent . 
The International Labor Organization says 60 percent of those aged 15 to 24 lack jobs . 
Tougher international sanctions would inflict more economic pain -- without necessarily swaying Syrian policy-makers . 
U.S. sanctions bar the export of certain goods with over 10 percent of U.S.-produced components , restrict dealings with the Commercial Bank of Syria and ban the U.S. financial system from dealing with individuals linked to militant groups . 
Any punitive measures by the European Union , which accounted for 36 percent of Syria 's exports and 29 percent of its imports in 2008 , would probably target Syrian leaders , not trade . 
\* Worsening budget deficit , pressure on Syrian pound An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


LONDON | Thu Apr 28 , 2011 10:19 am EDT LONDON -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - High world oil futures prices could rise yet further if the European Union puts sanctions on Syrian oil this week , although the country exports modest amounts and the quality is low , analysts and traders said . 
`` The physical market impact is very small . 
But the current futures market is bullish so even if 50,000 barrels per day -LRB- bpd -RRB- go out , prices will go ballistic , '' an oil trader with a major bank said Thursday . 
The European Union will discuss in Brussels Friday possible sanctions against Syria 's leadership over its crackdown on protesters , EU diplomats have said . 
Any sanctions would probably begin with asset freezes and travel bans on the leadership and it could take up to two weeks before the measures formally pass into law . 
If measures are taken against the leadership , state oil export monopoly Sytrol is likely to be affected . 
Syrian security forces have shot dead at least 400 civilians in their campaign to crush month-long pro-democracy protests , Syrian human rights organizations have said . 
The United States is also considering sanctions against Syrian government officials to increase pressure on President Bashar al-Assad to end the crackdown . 
`` Pressure on Syrian elites keeps mounting ... However , a condemnation of Syrian actions by the U. N , Security Council has so far been thwarted by Russia , China and Lebanon , '' said David Wech from JBC Energy . 
Syrian crude oil output was around 400,000 bpd in 2010 compared with a peak of around 600,000 bpd in the 1990s . 
Today 's volumes are only a fraction of Libya 's output of 1.6 million bpd or around 2 percent of the global consumption , which has been shut by sanctions and a civil war since March . 
RUSSIAN CRUDE TO GET SUPPORT A key difference with Libya is that Syria exports mainly sour and heavy crude , which is harder to process than the sweet and light Libyan oil that yields more light products such as gasoline and gasoil . 
U.S. and Brent oil futures , as well as premiums on sweet versus sour grades , have rallied since March after Libya stopped exporting its predominantly sweet barrels . 
Brent oil futures traded above $ 125 a barrel Thursday , not far from their highest level since August 2008 . 
`` This would mean that a possible shut-in would not be too dramatic for the European crude market as it would be relatively easy to find substitutes for Syrian Heavy , particularly as there is plenty of sour crude available in the region , something that can not be said for light-sweet grades , '' Wech said . 
Syria 's two key production streams are the sour and heavy Souedie crude , which yields lower quality products , and the sweet and lighter Syrian Light grade . 
More than half the output is processed at domestic refineries , which can refine around 240,000 bpd , while some 150,000 bpd or around 6 tankers a month of mostly sour Souedie is exported mainly to Italy , the Netherlands , France and Spain . 
An Italian refiner said interest in the Souedie grade was low as the official selling price of minus $ 10.6 per barrel to the benchmark dated Brent was still too high , given the poor returns to be gained at present from refining heavy oil . 
`` This is a minor problem for the market since you do n't have the physical tightness even despite Libya . 
But the very bullish futures market has long been ignoring fundamentals , '' said a trader at a trading firm in the Mediterranean . 
The trader said Syrian exports would halt very quickly if sanctions were imposed on the country as international banks would quickly stop accepting payments , as they did with Libya . 
`` Although the impact on the physical market will be limited , some similar grades might benefit -- primarily -LRB- Russia 's -RRB- Urals , -LRB- Iraq 's -RRB- Kirkuk and Iranian Heavy , '' he said . 
-LRB- Reporting by Dmitry Zhdannikov and Ikuko Kurahone , editing by Anthony Barker -RRB- An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


A man wearing a mask of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad demonstrates against Assad in front of the International Criminal Court offices in The Hague , June 7 , 2011 . 
AMMAN | Tue Jun 7 , 2011 6:31 pm EDT AMMAN -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - Syrians fled a restive town toward the Turkish border , fearing bloodshed as troops with tanks approached , under orders to hit back after the government accused armed bands there of killing scores of its security men . 
Though accounts of days of killing in Jisr al-Shughour ranged from an official version of gunmen ambushing troops to residents ' reports of an army mutiny , it triggered international alarm that violence may enter a new and bloodier phase after three months of popular unrest that has left over 1,000 dead . 
France and Britain , allies in the war against Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi , took a lead in pushing U.N. moves against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad . 
But Russia , citing NATO 's inconclusive bombing of Tripoli , said it would veto intervention against Syria in the United Nations Security Council . 
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe , at U.N. headquarters in New York , said it was `` a question of days , maybe hours '' before the Council voted on a resolution condemning Syria . 
A draft circulated last month does not propose military intervention . 
At Jisr al-Shughour , home to tens of thousands of people , residents said they were taking cover and bracing for attacks . 
`` The army is taking up position around Jisr al-Shughour , '' one anti-government activist told Reuters by telephone , saying residents have seen troops approaching the northeastern town from Aleppo , Syria 's second city , and from Latakia on the coast . 
`` Most people have left the town because they are scared , '' he said , asking not to be named for his own safety . 
`` They know the deaths will be high . 
People have gone to nearby villages close to the Turkish border . 
The doctors and nurses have also left . '' 
On Monday , Information Minister Adnan Mahmoud said army units would carry out their `` national duty to restore security . '' 
The government has expelled independent journalists , making it hard to determine clearly what is happening in the country . 
Despite enthusiasm for pro-democracy movements that have unseated dictators in Tunisia and Egypt , few Western leaders -- let alone their autocratic Arab partners -- have shown a will to intervene in Syria , an Iranian ally whose volatile mix of ethnic and religious groups sits astride a web of regional conflicts . 
Assad 's family and supporters from the minority Alawite sect have dominated Syria since his late father seized power 41 years ago . 
He has responded with promises of reform , and a crackdown on protesters in towns across the country . 
His officials accuse radical Islamists of fomenting a violent , armed revolt . 
Neighboring countries , including Israel and Turkey , worry that a collapse into chaos could set off sectarian conflict and the emergence of violent , radical Islamists , as happened in Neighboring Iraq after the U.S. invasion of 2003 . 
But Western powers kept up pressure . 
British Foreign Secretary William Hague , in some of London 's strongest language yet against the 45-year-old leader , told parliament : `` President Assad is losing legitimacy and should reform or step aside . '' 
He said European governments were looking at further sanctions . 
`` We are working to persuade other countries that the Security Council has a responsibility to speak out , '' Hague added . 
Russia appears opposed to a general condemnation of Assad , let alone authorizing military action against him . 
President Barack Obama , who last month urged Assad to lead a transition to democracy or `` get out of the way , '' did not mention Syria in remarks at a news briefing on Tuesday . 
But in Brussels , Russia 's envoy to the European Union , Vladimir Chizhov , said : `` The prospect of a U.N. Security Council resolution that 's along the same lines as Resolution 1973 on Libya will not be supported by my country ... The use of force , as Libya shows , does not provide answers . '' 
Veto-holding Russia abstained on the Libya vote , allowing NATO to begin a bombing campaign that Western powers say saved civilians in rebel-held Benghazi from an onslaught by Gaddafi 's forces , but which has failed to dislodge the Libyan leader . 
A report that Syria 's ambassador to Paris had quit prompted speculation of rifts in the Syrian elite . 
France 24 television aired comments it said was the envoy resigning . 
But Al-Arabiya later broadcast comments in Arabic that it said were from the same diplomat in which she denied making such a statement . 
It remained unclear whether there had been some hoax or a change of heart . 
The ambassador could not be reached to comment . 
Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters . 
No one in the entire country , man , woman , or child has the right to even breathe without asking Assad 's regime -- starting from the bottom of the ranks all the way to the top officals , that is if he\/she can reach such high ranking officals . 
This is the way of life for any Syrian , unless that is , they are affiliated with the government . 
This is how Assad rules the country and will continue to do so . 
Anyone asking for their basic right of freedom will be annihilated . 
Assad will even destroy and attempt to vanish from the entire earth a population of people if anyone dares to , again , ask for their freedom of right to live . 
This was witnessed in Hama in 1982 . 
Strife and violence is being instigated by Assad and his cronies in Jisr Al-Shaghour intentionally to start a war among the people . 
There are no armed protestors . 
No civilian has the right to carry a gun in Syria , unless they are part of the `` Mukhabarat '' . 
But , like `` awmassey '' wrote , the time has come for Bashar to leave . 
Unfortunately , it is at the expense of the people . 
The international community must do more than rhetoric . 
Otherwise , the entire population of Syria will be wiped out by Assad , just so he can stay in power . 
Assad is not a reformer . 
He is a butcher and murderer ! 
Just like his father ! 
There is a presumption in this article that ought to be examined : that the Middle East uprisings are '' pro-democracy '' in nature . 
They are in fact '' regime change '' in nature . 
The vast majority of people in these countries are very unhappy with their leadership and desire change . 
The idea that the direction of the desired change is toward Western values is almost completely unsupported on the ground and is wishful thinking on the part of people who ought to know better . 
Ultimately when all is said and done , we 'll have little reason to rejoice . 
This discussion is now closed . 
We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication . 
An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


Prime Minister David Cameron makes closing remarks at the G8 summit in Deauville May 27 , 2011 . 
UNITED NATIONS | Wed Jun 8 , 2011 11:47 pm BST UNITED NATIONS -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - Britain , France , Germany and Portugal handed the U.N. Security Council a draft resolution on Wednesday condemning Syria 's crackdown on protesters , despite the risk of a Russian veto . 
The U.N. ambassadors of the four European Union countries told reporters they presented the draft at a council meeting at which the 15-nation body was briefed by a senior U.N. official on the unrest in Syria . 
There was no vote on the latest draft resolution , which may be amended further . 
British Ambassador Mark Lyall Grant said the text had been revised to respond to developments in Syria and concerns raised by some council members . 
`` We hope that all members of the Security Council will be able to rally to it , '' Lyall Grant said . 
`` We hope that it will get overwhelming support and that we will be able to go to the vote in the next few days . '' 
Three months of popular unrest in Syria has cost more than 1,000 lives , according to human rights groups . 
French Ambassador Gerard Araud said the worsening situation made it necessary for the council to take a stand on the issue . 
`` Our concern is that the country could fall into a civil war , '' he said . 
`` The council has to act . '' 
Lyall Grant said negotiators would meet again to discuss the draft on Thursday morning . 
Several diplomats said there could be a vote on Friday . 
The United States , which diplomats say has been reluctant to risk a Russian veto of a U.N. condemnation that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad will almost certainly ignore , is not a sponsor of the resolution . 
However , U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice said Washington had offered its `` strong support for that text . '' 
Russia and China , which both hold vetoes , have made clear they dislike the idea of council involvement , which they say could help to destabilize a strategic Middle Eastern country . 
Several diplomats told Reuters they expected Russia to veto the draft resolution , though others said they thought Moscow could be persuaded to abstain , in which case China would likely follow suit . 
`` I hear that the veto is inevitable , '' one diplomat said . 
Resolutions need nine votes in favor and no vetoes to pass . 
If Russia and China abstained , the draft would be adopted , even if Lebanon , South Africa , India and Brazil voted against it . 
While Russia has long been an ally and key arms supplier to Syria , diplomats said the Russians made clear they did not want a repeat of the NATO intervention in Libya , which Moscow believes has spun out of control beyond the original U.N. mandate to protect civilians . 
Without mentioning Russia , China and India by name , Rice dismissed the comparisons with Libya . 
`` We heard several council members , in some instances ... disingenuously , use Libya as an excuse , as a ploy to avoid the real issues that we are facing in Syria , '' Rice said . 
In a challenge to Russia and Beijing , British Prime Minister David Cameron told parliament in London , `` If anyone votes against that resolution or tries to veto it , that should be on their conscience . '' 
Like an earlier draft first circulated to council members last month , the latest text urges countries not to supply weapons to Damascus but does not provide for an actual arms embargo or other specific punitive measures . 
The draft , a copy of which was obtained by Reuters , condemns `` systematic '' human rights violations by Syrian authorities and says they may amount to crimes against humanity . 
But it also denounces violence against security forces . 
One diplomat said the new amendments attempted to make the resolution look less like a prelude to further action such as the military intervention that NATO has conducted in Libya . 
In particular , a new clause says that `` the only solution to the current crisis in Syria is through an inclusive and Syrian-led political process . '' 
Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin gave no hints as to whether or not he planned to veto the draft resolution . 
`` Things are being crossed out -LRB- in the text -RRB- , '' he said as he entered the council chambers . 
`` I need to see a clean copy . '' 


Syria 's ruling Baath party is facing one of the gravest crises in its history What prompted the protests in Syria ? 
Syrians have endured decades of economic hardship , political repression and corruption under the rule of the Assad family , in power since 1971 . 
President Bashar al-Assad - who inherited power from his father Hafez in 2000 - had moved to open up the country 's economy , but continued to jail critics of the regime and maintained a stranglehold on the internet and media . 
The country 's protests started in Deraa on 18 March Political parties and protests were banned and the emergency law - in place since 1963 - gave the authorities sweeping powers of arrest . 
The protests kicked off in mid-March , inspired by the revolutions that toppled the leaders of Tunisia and Egypt . 
They began in the southern town of Deraa , where several teenagers were jailed for spray-painting the popular revolution slogan , `` The people want the fall of the regime '' , on the wall of their school compound . 
Residents protested , calling for the release of the children and chanting `` God , Syria , Freedom '' . 
Security forces opened fire on the protesters , killing and wounding several . 
Days of unrest followed , with police shooting more people and protesters burning government buildings . 
The turmoil in Deraa quickly spread to other towns and cities , including the third-largest city of Homs and Baniyas on the Mediterranean coast . 
Protesters have been calling for greater freedom , an end to corruption , and increasingly - the toppling of President Assad . 
How has the government responded ? 
What is the extent of the crackdown ? 
Early on in the protests , President Assad , 45 , appeared on television promising to speed up reforms . 
In a major concession , he lifted the hated emergency law on 21 April . 
But days later , he resorted to overwhelming force to try to put down the protests . 
Opposition channels have been airing footage of alleged abuses The government has sent tanks and troops into at least nine towns and cities . 
In Deraa and Homs - where protests have persisted - the government has used tank fire to shoot down unarmed protesters , amateur video footage shows . 
Snipers fire from rooftops on residents who dare to venture outside . 
Men are rounded up and detained in house-to-house night-time raids . 
Electricity and communication lines are cut . 
Roads are blocked and hospitals raided . 
Journalists and UN observers are barred . 
Troops have now moved on the northern town of Jisr al-Shughour , after the government said 120 security personnel were killed there , prompting more than 2,000 people to flee to Turkey . 
Human Rights groups say about 1,100 civilians have been killed and thousands arrested since pro-democracy protests began on 18 March . 
Several hundred members of the security forces are also believed to have died . 
The government says it is pursuing `` armed gangs '' and `` terrorist groups '' . 
The government has also announced plans to draft a new election law , but critics have dismissed it as a cosmetic move . 
How close is Syria to the tipping point ? 
Correspondents say the protests have not reached the critical mass - as seen in Egypt , Tunisia , or even Yemen . 
The major cities of Damascus and Aleppo have seen small pockets of unrest , but confined to the suburbs or university campuses , due in part to a heavy security presence . 
And the protest epicentres of Deraa , Baniyas and Homs appear to have been silenced - for now - by a heavy military onslaught . 
But there are conflicting reports about the recent violence in Jisr al-Shughour , with opposition groups saying it was sparked by a desertion from military ranks . 
The deserters were then shot by loyal troops , they said . 
President Assad also has his supporters . 
There have been massive pro-Assad rallies in the capital , organised by the government in a show of force . 
Some of the smaller protests at university campuses have been met by rival pro-government demonstrators . 
How is Syria different from Egypt or Libya ? 
There are several factors that complicate the crisis in Syria . 
Mr Assad enjoys strong support within many segments of Syrian society , mostly among minorities , the middle class and the business elite . 
There are fears of a civil war if President Assad should fall . 
Syria is made up of a precarious mix of confessions - 74 % Sunni ; 10 % Christian , 10 % Alawite , 3 % Druze and 3 % Other Shia . 
Even among those who want to see serious reforms , many would prefer to give President Assad time to implement them . 
Unlike in Egypt , there is no daylight between the army and the regime . 
The armed forces are overwhelmingly made up of Alawites , so they too are in a fight to maintain their power and privilege . 
While there have been reports of low-level defections , the military command appears solid . 
Syria is a major regional power and any chaos here will cause knock-on effects in countries such as Lebanon and Israel , where it can use proxy groups such as Hezbollah and Hamas to cause trouble . 
It also has close ties with Shia power Iran - an arch foe of the US and Israel - which could potentially draw Western powers into a dangerous Middle Eastern conflict . 
How has the West responded and should more be done ? 
The US and EU have strongly condemned the Syrian government 's violence against its own citizens and slapped sanctions on a number of senior Syrian figures . 
On 18 May , the US imposed sanctions for the first time on President Assad himself , accusing him of human rights abuses . 
At the start of June , US Secretary of State , Hillary Clinton , called for President Assad to reform or `` get out of the way '' . 
However , the Obama administration has no real levers with which to influence the Assad regime . 
Western officials say they can not act robustly because - unlike with Libya - they do not have the backing of the Arab League , which has remained silent on the issue of Syria . 
The UN Security Council is also split , with France and the UK proposing a resolution to condemn the crackdown , but nations including Brazil , China and Russia voicing concern that such a resolution could inflame tensions . 
They also argue that they have no clear picture of Syria after Mr Assad . 
In the absence of any clear opposition leaders who could unite its rival political , religious and ethnic communities , there are fears the country would descend into chaos . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


DUBAI | Wed Jul 13 , 2011 7:13 am BST DUBAI -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - Saudi Arabia has helped damp down democracy movements sweeping the Arab world but is waiting now to see how events play out in places like Syria and Yemen for fear of overplaying its hand . 
After witnessing the sudden collapse of rulers in Egypt and Tunisia this year , the Al Saud family that monopolises power in Saudi Arabia orchestrated Gulf Arab moves to stop the unrest from spreading through the Gulf region . 
Saudi , United Arab Emirates and Kuwaiti forces went to Bahrain in March to help crush protests threatening to force the ruling family there to make democratic changes . 
They offered money to Oman and Bahrain for more social spending , and Qatar 's Al Jazeera TV toned down its hard-hitting Gulf coverage after meetings between Saudi and Qatari officials . 
Riyadh was the prime mover behind a Gulf Cooperation Council -LRB- GCC -RRB- proposal to enhance relations with Jordan and Morocco in an apparent effort to boost other Arab dynastic systems . 
A Saudi official said Jordan was given $ 400 million -LRB- 251 million pounds -RRB- last month . 
In March and April it also brokered a peace deal in Yemen , a republic different in size and social make-up to the GCC countries , that was to see President Ali Abdullah Saleh step down one month after forming a cabinet . 
Yet following that flurry of interventions , Saudi diplomacy has largely gone quiet , most notably on two fronts where Riyadh has major interests -- Yemen and Syria . 
Its response also has been muted in Libya , a more distant concern for Riyadh . 
Analysts and diplomats say there are disputes within the ranks of senior princes and officials on whether to take a back seat , intervene more forcefully to stop democratic changes or , in some cases , to back them . 
Turki Al-Rasheed , a Saudi commentator who runs the Saudi In Focus web forum , said the kingdom 's leaders had run out of ideas on how to challenge the movements amid internal disputes and given the lethargy of senior princes holding different briefs . 
`` They are quiet because they did something and it failed . 
Bahrain is still boiling . 
The only card now is to pay the Americans billions for their weapons , '' he said , referring to reports that $ 60 billion in arms purchases from the United States would rise to $ 90 billion . 
The ruling Al Khalifa family has instituted a national dialogue in Bahrain , but protests continue in neighborhoods of the majority Shi'ite population , who dominated the protest movement . 
Demonstrations rekindled in Oman last week . 
Saudi Arabia has seen only a small number of protests in Shi'ite areas of its Eastern Province . 
Stern government warnings and promises of massive social spending have helped hold back a protest movement taking off on its soil . 
`` There is no one single Saudi policy . 
Each issue is handled from a different point of view and they -LRB- the princes -RRB- are all very old and sick , '' Rasheed said . 
Diplomats in Riyadh often say rigor mortis usually sets in with Saudi policy initiatives during the long summer recess . 
One Saudi commentator who did not wish to be named said there has been division over how to proceed on Yemen . 
Interior Minister Prince Nayef backs Saleh while Crown Prince and Defense Minister Prince Sultan favor alternatives among tribes paid by the kingdom . 
However , Sultan , in his 80s , left last month for treatment in New York and Nayef , in his late 70s , also has been abroad for rest and recreation . 
Saleh has been convalescing in a Riyadh hospital since early June when he was badly burnt in an apparent assassination attempt . 
A bomb went off as he and government officials were performing Friday prayers in a mosque at his palace . 
But Riyadh has made no clear effort to enforce the GCC peace initiative , which Arab and Western diplomats say was largely a Saudi proposal from the beginning . 
Ghanem Nuseibah , London-based analyst at Political Capital , said the Saudi family 's first preference for Saleh to remain in power had given way to promoting Hamid Al-Ahmar , a 44-year-old businessman close to U.S. officials . 
The Saudi ideal is for Saleh 's system of family rule , balancing Saudi-backed tribal forces , to remain intact . 
This is exactly what the democracy activists who first took to the streets of Sanaa in January want to avoid . 
But fighting between tribesmen of Sadeq Al-Ahmar , head of the Hashed tribal confederation , and government forces loyal to Saleh -- whose military and security apparatus are headed by his extended family -- broke out in May . 
This confounded Saudi efforts at that stage to engineer cosmetic change . 
Now Riyadh is holding on to Saleh while it weighs its options on who can be the most effective strongman among the tribes it funded during Saleh 's 33 years of rule , Nuseibah said . 
Nuseibah said even Yemeni tribal figures close to Riyadh have expressed frustration with Saudi inaction . 
`` They see the way the Saudis have reacted since the beginning , '' he said . 
`` First they were pro-Saleh , then they bring Saleh to Riyadh but still letting him be a figurehead for the current regime , though he is not personally ruling . '' 
Saudi relations with Syria have been strained since the murder in 2005 of former Lebanese prime minister Rafik Hariri , a Saudi citizen and facilitator of Saudi policy in Lebanon where Iran has influence through Shi'ite group Hezbollah . 
Riyadh accuses Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad of helping Iran in a policy of extending its influence in Arab countries , primarily through its alliance with Lebanon 's Hezbollah . 
But while Al Jazeera and Saudi mouthpiece Al Arabiya TV have focussed heavily on Damascus 's attempt to crush protests , there have been no diplomatic initiatives to resolve the conflict , as France , Turkey and the United States have dominated international reaction to the turmoil in Syria . 
Some Saudis say this is not because the ruling clique -- King Abdullah , Nayef , Sultan and a few other senior princes -- do no want to see Assad removed from power . 
`` With Libya and Syria , I 'm sure the government would like to see those leaders fall , but in their own time , without getting involved , '' the Saudi commentator who requested anonymity said . 
`` Naturally Saudi Arabia , being a kingdom , sees any sudden change in power that 's now happening in the Middle East as a threat that might be contagious at some point , '' he added . 


CAIRO | Tue Jul 19 , 2011 4:04 pm BST CAIRO -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - Arab League head Nabil Elaraby said on Tuesday he has visited Syria to discuss the `` necessity of reform , '' but declined to give details of a meeting with President Bashar al-Assad , whose forces have used force to try to crush months of protests . 
Elaraby met Assad as part of a regional tour last week and was quoted by media as saying the League did not accept `` outside interference in the internal affairs of the Arab countries , '' even as diplomatic pressure mounts on Damascus . 
The League has kept a low profile in discussing the Syrian protests and Elaraby 's predecessor only voiced `` worry , '' signalling division in the 22-member body over how to proceed . 
`` I met with President Bashar al-Assad ... I spoke to him about the necessity of reform and I received a promise from him that he will work on that , '' Elaraby , named as the League 's new Secretary General in May , said at its Cairo-based headquarters . 
`` This is all I will say and I can not clarify more on that . '' 
Diplomatic pressure mounted on Assad on Monday after Qatar , previously a supporter , shut its embassy in Damascus and the European Union said it was considering tougher sanctions . 
Assad has described the uprising as a foreign conspiracy to sow sectarian strife . 
His troops and security forces have killed over 1,400 civilians and arrested more than 12,000 , according to rights groups . 
Analysts say the Arab League 's reticence may be a reflection of fears of what the Middle East may look like without Bashar , whose family has ruled Syria for 41 years . 
`` I found that , given the changing conditions in the region , I should start with a tour to know the leaders and their visions for what the Arab League could do in current conditions , '' said Elaraby , previously Egypt 's foreign minister . 
`` I have been careful to emphasise the importance of listening and fulfilling the demands of the Arab peoples , '' he added , but declined to say what he was seeking to do in Syria . 
That reserve contrasts with the role the League played in paving the way for NATO military strikes on Libya when it asked the U.N. Security Council to impose a no-fly zone to protect civilians in a rebellion against Muammar Gaddafi . 
`` On Syria ... it has to be clear that the Arab League ... is a diplomatic institution , '' he said . 
`` Not all that is being said inside closed rooms could be discussed with the media . '' 
The Arab League plans to ask the United Nations to upgrade the Palestinians to full member status . 
Elaraby defended the plan , which has gained momentum with the lack of progress in Israeli-Palestinian peace negotiations . 
`` The Palestinian people are the only people unable to determine their destiny , '' he said . 
`` This is like a declaration from Palestine and the Arab states that they want an end to this dispute . '' 
Elaraby reiterated the League 's calls for a political solution to Libya 's civil war . 
`` As the head of the Arab League , I welcome and I am ready to go and meet any leader ... or any other group part of a struggle whether in Libya or Yemen or anywhere else , '' Elaraby said . 


Unverified amateur footage purportedly shows newly-dug graves in Syria Syrian security forces have continued their siege of the central city of Hama as they maintain an offensive in which scores of people have died . 
Residents told the BBC that many people were fleeing to nearby villages , fearing a full-scale assault . 
The government does not control Hama , and its attack on the city is part of a nationwide crackdown on dissent that began on Sunday . 
The UN Security Council is set to resume discussions on the crisis . 
International pressure has been mounting on the Syrian government to call off its offensive against Hama . 
However , diplomats say a strong UN resolution is unlikely , and on Tuesday , the Security Council was unable to agree to a text condemning the violence . 
-LRB- President Assad -RRB- must be aware that under international humanitarian law , this is accountable '' End Quote Ban Ki-moon UN Secretary General Syrian Defense Minister Ali Habib was among five Syrian officials targeted by European Union asset freezes and travel bans , the EU said on Tuesday . 
And Italy has recalled its ambassador to Syria for consultations , citing the `` horrible repression '' of citizens . 
In Washington , US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton met Syrian dissidents , who pressed her to call on Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to step down immediately . 
Mrs Clinton `` expressed her admiration for the courage of the brave Syrian people who continue to defy the government 's brutality '' , a state department spokesman said . 
Human rights groups say some 140 people have been killed by the authorities since Sunday , most of them in Hama . 
More than 1,600 civilians are believed to have been killed since protests began in March . 
President Assad has promised reforms but says citizens and security forces are being attacked by `` armed gangs '' backed by unspecified foreign powers . 
International journalists have been denied access to Syria and it is not possible to verify accounts by witnesses and activists . 
After renewing their assault on Hama on Tuesday , Syrian tanks and troops held their positions around the city . 
Residents said three more people were killed by tank and sniper fire . 
Residents told Reuters news agency that the violence resumed after nightly Ramadan prayers on Tuesday , with tanks shelling the eastern Rubaii and al-Hamidiya neighborhoods , the Aleppo road in the north and the eastern Baath district . 
Hama - a bastion of defiance - occupies a significant place in the history of modern Syria . 
In 1982 , then-President Hafez al-Assad , father of Bashar , sent in troops to quell an uprising by the Sunni opposition Muslim Brotherhood . 
Tens of thousands were killed and the town flattened . 
The city , with a population of 800,000 , has seen some of the biggest protests and worst violence in Syria 's 2011 protests . 
It was slow to join in , but has now become one of the main focuses of the revolt . 
Witnesses and activists told Reuters that tens of people had also been injured after troops opened fire in western Damascus , in the north-eastern city of Hasaka , and in the coastal city of Latakia . 
Mobile phone footage purporting to show tanks firing in Hama on Monday was posted on social media websites . 
But Syrian state television has been showing its own footage , apparently also shot on mobile phones , saying it was taken in Hama on Sunday . 
It showed some anti-government protesters carrying shotguns , sticks , and knives , and one man wearing an ammunition vest and carrying an AK-47 rifle . 
Later , it reported that a group of `` saboteurs '' had stormed the main courthouse in Hama and set fire to much of the building . 
But Mr Hamawi told AP that a shell fired from a government tank had caused the fire . 
The London-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said 24 people were killed across Syria on Monday , including 10 in Hama . 
The current crackdown appears aimed at preventing protests from growing during Ramadan , when Muslims visit mosques for prayers after breaking their dawn-to-dusk fast . 
The government fears the gatherings could then turn into large protests , observers say . 
The UN Security Council is due to resume the debate on Wednesday . 
Council members including Russia , China , India and Brazil have been opposed to a draft resolution circulated by European members that would condemn Damascus . 
Diplomats said significant differences remained over the text and it had not been decided whether the end result should be a resolution or a less weighty council statement . 
Russia and some other countries are pushing for what they say is a more balanced text that would blame both Syrian authorities and the opposition for the violence , but Western nations say the two sides can not be equated . 
But the latest violence has led to wider acceptance that the council must act . 
As the council met again on Tuesday , UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon condemned the Syrian president . 
`` This is a totally unacceptable situation , '' Mr Ban said . 
`` I believe that he lost all sense of humanity . '' 
Syria 's anti-government protests , inspired by events in Tunisia and Egypt , first erupted in mid-March after the arrest of a group of teenagers who spray-painted a revolutionary slogan on a wall . 
The protests soon spread , and the UN says 3,500 people have died in the turmoil - mainly protestors but also members of Syria 's security forces - while thousands more have been injured . 
Although the arrest of the teenagers in the southern city of Deraa first prompted people to take to the streets , unrest has since spread to other areas , including Hama , Homs , Latakia , Jisr al-Shughour and Baniyas . 
Demonstrators are demanding greater freedom , an end to corruption , and , increasingly , the ousting of President Bashar al-Assad . 
The government has responded to the protests with overwhelming military force , sending tanks and troops into towns and cities . 
Amateur video footage shows tanks and snipers firing on unarmed protesters . 
There may have been an armed element to the uprising from its early days and army deserters have formed the Free Syrian Army . 
Some of the bloodiest events have taken place in the northern town of Jisr al-Shughour . 
In early June , officials claimed 120 security personnel were killed by armed gangs , however protesters said the dead were shot by troops for refusing to kill demonstrators . 
As the military moved to take control of the town , thousands fled to neighbouring Turkey , taking refuge in camps . 
Although the major cities of Damascus and Aleppo have seen pockets of unrest and some protests , it has not been widespread - due partly to a heavy security presence . 
There have been rallies in the capital - one with an enormous Syrian flag - in support of President Assad , who still receives the backing of many in Syria 's middle class , business elite and minority groups . 
The Assad family has been in power for 40 years , with Bashar al-Assad inheriting office in 2000 . 
The president has opened up the economy , but has continued to jail critics and control the media . 
He is from the minority Alawite sect - an offshoot of Shia Islam - but the country 's 20 million people are mainly Sunni . 
The biggest protests have been in Sunni-majority areas . 
The uprising has cost 3,500 lives , according to the UN and Jordan 's King Abdullah says that President Assad should now step down . 
The Arab League has suspended Syria 's membership and voted for sanctions . 
The EU has frozen the assets of Syrian officials , placed an arms embargo on Syria and banned imports of its oil . 
But fears remain of Syria collapsing into civil war . 
BACK -LCB- current -RCB- of -LCB- total -RCB- NEXT Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


By Mike Wooldridge World Affairs correspondent , BBC News , London Syrian sympathisers in Turkey have held rallies in support of the protesters More Gulf Arab nations have withdrawn their ambassadors from Syria as the government 's crackdown against protesters continues unabated . 
Kuwait and Bahrain have now followed Saudi Arabia in recalling their ambassadors for consultations . 
Nearly five months after Syrian opposition activists started out on their version of the Arab Spring - and with President Bashar al-Assad 's regime intensifying its crackdown on the protesters all the while - there is now evidently increasing anxiety in the region about where these events are heading . 
Some of the new diplomatic pressure is coming from countries that have faced criticism of their own human rights records . 
The first to act was the Sunni Muslim regional heavyweight , Saudi Arabia . 
The Saudi king 's public criticism of Bashar al-Assad is seen as highly significant No less a figure than King Abdullah himself urged Damascus to `` stop the killing machine and the bloodshed before it is too late '' . 
Then Kuwait told Syria that `` the military option must be halted '' . 
And Bahrain called for `` a resort to reason '' . 
A senior UN official - the special rapporteur on extra-judicial executions , Christof Heyns - told the BBC he welcomed the new pressure . 
`` I do think , '' he said , `` that it is encouraging to see that from the region in different forms - from the Arab League , from the Gulf states , and now from Saudi Arabia as well , and from other neighbors - there is peer pressure and that is really , I think , the most effective mechanism . '' 
In another move today , Sheikh Ahmed al-Tayeb - the Grand Imam of al-Azhar , the leading authority in Sunni Islam - called for an end to what he called the `` Arab and Islamic tragedy '' in Syria . 
It all appears to add up to more isolation for President Assad and the regime within the region , with the open criticism from Saudi Arabia on the personal authority of the king seen as the most significant . 
We must not watch in silence while hundreds are killed and thousands more detained and tortured '' End Quote William Hague British foreign secretary Riyadh certainly has an interest in seeking to weaken Syria 's ties with Iran , but diplomats believe this is by no means its only calculation in making a move that contrasts with its usually more discreet regional diplomacy . 
The British foreign secretary , William Hague , said in a statement issued on Monday evening that he condemned the violence against Syrian citizens in Hama , Deir al-Zour and other cities `` that shows no signs of ending '' . 
He added : `` We must not watch in silence while hundreds are killed and thousands more detained and tortured . 
I therefore welcome the strong condemnation by countries across the Arab world and Turkey of the regime 's actions and am urgently working with partners on increasing the pressure further on President Assad and those around him . '' 
Besides discussions about further sanctions , there are now signs that these new developments in the region - and the latest violence - could lead to a fresh attempt by Britain and other members of the Security Council to persuade the UN to take tougher action in response to the Syria crisis . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 
10th August 2011 - 11:12 So Sunni does n't support Shia , well thats a surprise is n't it ! 
We have the Sunni King of Saudi who has helped his Sunni friend in Bahrain to overpower Shiah protestors in his country screaming about Sunni protestors being slaughtered in Syria . 
Kuwait has Iraq with a shia majority next door . 
If it was blacks and whites this attitude would be called racism but is really religious intolerance . 
10th August 2011 - 10:59 Any regime that orders its security forces to open fire on it 's own people has lost it 's legitimacy . 
The people want freedom and democracy , this means the end of the rule of Assad and his clique . 
As in the rest of the ME it unsettles the status quo . 
However a new stability based on government by popular consent is the way forward . 
10th August 2011 - 10:16 With the reported comments from Turkey do others see the possibility of Turkey intervening with military force in Syria . 
After all Turkey ruled Syria for centuries and has large modern armed forces . 
10th August 2011 - 9:20 Mr hypocrite aka King Abdullah -LRB- K.S. . 
A -RRB- urged Damascus to stop the killing machine and the bloodshed , someone needs to remind him of the killing machines that hes sent to bahrain , whether its syria or bahrain ppl should get what they want !!! I agree . 
You would think we would be given the chance to comment on this major issue , particularly as the BBC is funded by us the tax payer . 
It would interesting to know who actually pulls the strings at the BBC All posts are reactively-moderated and must obey the house rules . 


Saudi Arabia recalls ambassador to Syria Protests have continued in cities across Syria despite the crackdown by security forces Saudi Arabia has said it is recalling its ambassador from Damascus in protest against Syria 's deadly crackdown on anti-government demonstrators . 
A statement from King Abdullah said the violence was `` unacceptable '' and called for it to stop before it was too late . 
It came hours after the Arab League issued its first official statement , strongly condemning the violence . 
On Sunday , more than 80 people died as the army launched assaults in eastern and central Syria , activists said . 
They said at least 50 died when soldiers , backed by scores of tanks and armored vehicles , stormed Deir al-Zour during the dawn call to prayer . 
A man living in the city told the BBC the tanks had been withdrawn from the eastern city , but that residents feared they would come back . 
Twenty-six others were killed in Hula , near the city of Homs , including a 10-year-old boy . 
Deaths were also reported in Idlib in the north-west . 
The Local Co-ordination Committees , an activist group that documents and organises protests , said that after sunset , thousands of protesters poured onto the streets in towns and cities , including Damascus and its suburbs , Homs , Aleppo , and Latakia on the Mediterranean coast . 
Activists say at least 1,700 civilians have been killed and tens of thousands arrested since the uprising began in mid-March . 
Jim Muir BBC News , Beirut By Arab diplomatic standards , it was a highly dramatic intervention by the Saudi monarch . 
A statement from him was read out on al-Arabiya , saying the kingdom had taken an historic decision despite all the support it had given Syria in the past . 
It is by far the clearest and toughest regional position Syria has met , and it comes from one of the most influential Arab powers . 
Another major force in the region , Turkey , is stepping up the pressure too . 
Its foreign minister is due in Damascus on Tuesday with a tough message for President Assad . 
The US Secretary of State , Hillary Clinton , has asked the Turkish minister to press the regime to pull its troops back to barracks . 
But so far , there is no sign of that happening . 
Damascus has said its critics are ignoring the killings and destruction by what it calls `` armed terrorist gangs '' , and also ignoring the reform program that the regime has launched in a bid to defuse the crisis . 
It says it needs more time . 
But time seems to be running out , as the country slips daily closer to the spectre of a sectarian civil war that has set the regional alarm bells ringing . 
Access to Syria has been severely restricted for international journalists and it is rarely possible to verify accounts by witnesses and activists . 
In a major escalation in international pressure on President Bashar al-Assad , King Abdullah declared on Sunday evening that his country had taken an `` historic decision '' despite all the support it had given Syria in the past . 
`` Any sane Arab , Muslim or anyone else knows that this has nothing to do with religion , or ethics or morals ; spilling the blood of the innocent for any reasons or pretext leads to no path to ... hope , '' he said in a statement broadcast by the Saudi-owned satellite channel , al-Arabiya . 
`` What is happening in Syria is not acceptable for Saudi Arabia , '' he added . 
`` There are only two options for Syria 's future : either it chooses wisdom on its own , or it will be pulled down into the depths of chaos and loss . '' 
`` The kingdom of Saudi Arabia ... demands an end to the killing-machine and bloodshed and calls for acts of wisdom before it is too late . '' 
`` Syria should think wisely before it is too late and issue and enact reforms that are not merely promises but actual reforms , '' he concluded . 
BBC Middle East correspondent Jon Leyne says the statement seems to be a co-ordinated move , following the Arab League 's own communique . 
The 22-member league said it was `` alarmed '' by the situation in the country and called for an immediate end to the violence . 
The six-nation Gulf Co-operation Council -LRB- GCC -RRB- also issued its first comments about the unrest on Saturday , condemning the `` excessive use of force '' and calling for an `` immediate end to the violence '' . 
King Abdullah sent Saudi troops in March to Bahrain as part of a GCC force to help the country 's Sunni monarchy crush anti-government protests led by the Shia majority . 
Saudi officials also criticised the decision to put Egypt 's ousted president , Hosni Mubarak , on trial . 
Our correspondent says President Assad is now even more isolated . 
A US state department official said the Saudi monarch 's statement was `` another clear sign that the international community , including Syria 's neighbors , are repulsed by the brutal actions of the Syrian government '' . 
Diplomatic tension with neighbouring Turkey is also rising . 
Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on Saturday that Ankara had `` run out of patience '' with President Assad 's regime and that it could no longer `` remain a spectator '' to events across its border . 
He announced that he was sending Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu to Damascus on Tuesday to deliver a `` tough message '' . 
But one of Mr Assad 's top advisers said he would be given an even tougher message to take home . 
UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon spoke to President Assad by telephone on Saturday , urging him to stop the use of military force against protesters and to allow humanitarian missions into his country . 
Last week the UN Security Council also called on the Syrian leader to stop the violence . 
President Assad has insisted that his government is enacting reforms . 
He blames the violence on `` armed terrorist gangs '' which he says are backed by foreign powers . 
`` Syria is on the path to reform , '' he was quoted as telling Lebanese Foreign Minister Adnan Mansour by the state news agency , Sana . 
`` To deal with outlaws who cut off roads , seal towns and terrorise residents is a duty of the state , which must defend security and protect the lives of civilians , '' he added . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


DUBAI | Mon Aug 8 , 2011 11:55 am EDT DUBAI -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - Gulf Arab states broke their silence over a bloody crackdown on popular unrest in Syria , recalling their envoys in a pointed rebuke of President Bashar al-Assad 's behavior and significantly deepening his international isolation . 
In less than 24 hours , the island kingdom of Bahrain and oil-rich neighbor Kuwait followed Saudi Arabia 's lead by summoning their ambassadors from Damascus `` for consultations . '' 
Saudi Arabia , an absolute monarchy normally loath to criticize other Arab autocrats but now wary of giving an opening to reform elements at home , pulled its envoy late on Sunday . 
King Abdullah , in an extraordinary statement read on Al Arabiya television , said Syria 's fierce military crackdown on nearly five months of demonstrations for more political freedoms had `` nothing to do with religion , or values , or ethics . '' 
Abdullah , who has approved billions of dollars in handouts to Saudi citizens this year in a move analysts said was aimed at buffering his monarchy from political reform pressure , issued a stern warning that Syria must be open to change . 
`` Syria should think wisely before it 's too late and issue and enact reforms , '' he said . 
`` Either it chooses wisdom on its own or it will be pulled down into the depths of turmoil and loss . '' 
`` The action of Gulf states has served to isolate the Assad regime in the Arab world , thereby signaling a major strategic shift in the region : From tacit support of the Syrian regime 's action to outright condemnation , '' said Michael Stephens , analyst at the Royal United Services Institute -LRB- RUSI -RRB- based in Doha . 
While unlikely to lead to intervention in Syria , the Gulf comments marked the sharpest Arab criticism leveled against any Arab state since a wave of protests began rocking the Middle East in January , toppling veteran rulers in Tunisia and Egypt . 
On Monday , Kuwaiti Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed al-Sabah told reporters in parliament that he would meet his counterparts across the Gulf to discuss conditions in Syria . 
`` When the number of innocent people killed exceeds 2,000 , it is something totally unacceptable , '' he said , while ruling out any military action against the fellow Arab country . 
Hours later , Bahrain , which itself suppressed a protest movement in March , joined growing condemnation of Syria when Foreign Minister Sheikh Khaled al-Khalifa announced the recall of his country 's ambassador . 
`` Bahrain has summoned its ambassador for consultation and stresses the importance of prudent action , '' he posted on his Twitter account . 
Apart from Libya 's civil war , Syria 's military crackdown has been the most violent outgrowth of unrest in the Arab world this year . 
On Monday , tanks extended operations to crush protesters in Syria 's Sunni Muslim tribal heartland . 
Assad 's government says it is fighting criminals and armed extremists who have provoked violence by attacking its troops . 
Syrian rights activists and Western countries say Assad 's forces have attacked peaceful protesters . 
But sharp words against Syria by Gulf states are unlikely at this time to be followed by any decisive action . 
Analysts expect Gulf governments to stop short of supporting intervention in Syria as they did against distant Libya , where the United Arab Emirates and Qatar have sent planes to back NATO air strikes . 
In ruling out military action , Kuwait echoed an Arab League statement earlier on Monday saying that the pan-Arab body would use persuasion rather than `` drastic measures '' to press for an end to Syria 's bloodshed . 
Despite a lack of appetite for military moves , Saudi Arabia has played a `` game changer '' role in bringing Gulf states to heap pressure on another discredited Arab leader to quit , Yemen 's Ali Abdullah Saleh , RUSI 's Stephens said . 
Qatar , which has sought to lead Arab diplomacy as the unrest spreads , was the first to recall its envoy to Syria in July . 
Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters . 
Positive change for everyone concerned . 
President Bashar al-Assad should come to a negotiating table and work out a peaceful resolution to this very unnecessary This discussion is now closed . 
We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication . 
An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


EDITOR 'S NOTE : Credit : Reuters CAN NOT INDEPENDENTLY VERIFY THE CONTENT OF THE VIDEO FROM WHICH THIS STILL IMAGE WAS TAKEN An army tank is seen on a street in Hama city , in this undated still image taken from amateur video , taken August 7 , 2011 and made available to Reuters on August 8 , 2011 . 
REUTERS\/Social media website via Reuters TV AMMAN | Mon Aug 8 , 2011 3:38 pm EDT AMMAN -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - Syrian President Bashar al-Assad pressed on with a tank onslaught against a city Monday , but was plunged deeper into international isolation by Arab neighbors who denounced his violent crackdown and recalled their envoys from Damascus . 
Assad 's five-month campaign against street protests has emerged as one of the bloodiest episodes of the wave of democratic revolutions sweeping the Arab world this year . 
Killings have worsened sharply in the past week after Assad ordered tank assaults on two cities . 
Other Arab leaders had been cautious about criticizing one of their peers , but Saudi Arabia 's King Abdullah broke the silence with a rare intervention overnight , demanding an end to the bloodshed and recalling the Saudi ambassador from Damascus . 
Hours later Kuwait and Bahrain recalled their envoys too . 
Syrian tanks and troops poured into the eastern Sunni city of Deir al-Zor in the latest stage of a campaign to crush centers of protest against 41 years of Assad family rule . 
`` Armored vehicles are shelling the al-Hawiqa district heavily with their guns . 
Private hospitals are closed and people are afraid to send the wounded to state facilities because they are infested with secret police , '' Mohammad , a Deir al-Zor resident who did not want to give his full name . 
He said at least 65 people had been killed since tanks and Armored vehicles barreled into the provincial capital , 400 km -LRB- 250 miles -RRB- northeast of Damascus , Sunday , crumpling makeshift barricades and opening fire . 
Later Monday Assad fired defense minister Ali Habib and replaced him with chief of staff General Daoud Rajha . 
The state news agency said Habib was ill . 
Habib had been added to an EU sanctions list last week for his role in crushing protests . 
Syria 's military is effectively under the command of Assad 's brother Maher . 
Many officers are from the Assad family 's minority Alawite sect . 
The Syrian Observatory of Human Rights said among those killed were a mother and her two children , an elderly woman and a young girl . 
Syria has expelled most independent media since the uprising began , making it hard to confirm accounts . 
The sudden withdrawal of ambassadors of Gulf Arab states leaves Assad with few diplomatic friends . 
Western states have imposed sanctions on top Syrian officials and countries with close ties to Damascus such as Russia and Turkey have warned Assad he is running out of time . 
Nevertheless , countries have not proposed military action like that ranged against Libya 's leader Muammar Gaddafi . 
Assad 's forces shot dead at least three mourners Monday when they opened fire at a funeral for a pro-democracy protester in the southern border city of Deraa , cradle of the five month uprising , witnesses and activists said . 
Rami Abdulrahman of the Syrian Observatory said one of the dead was Maen Yousef Awadat , a leading political campaigner , who had recently been released from prison . 
The funeral was for a youth arrested earlier this week when he took part street protests after nightly Ramadan prayers . 
His body was handed to relatives earlier Monday with signs of torture , according to relatives contacted in Deraa . 
The Saudi criticism was the sharpest the oil giant has directed against any fellow Arab state since uprisings began to sweep the region , toppling autocrats in Tunisia and Egypt , kindling civil war in Libya and rattling elites . 
`` What is happening in Syria is not acceptable for Saudi Arabia , '' the Saudi king said in a written statement read out on Al Arabiya satellite television . 
`` Syria should think wisely before it 's too late and issue and enact reforms that are not merely promises but actual reforms . '' 
`` Either it chooses wisdom on its own or it will be pulled down into the depths of turmoil and loss . '' 
The assault on Deir al-Zor , in an oil-producing province bordering Iraq , took place a week after tanks stormed the city of Hama , where residents say scores have been killed . 
The official SANA news agency said Monday the military was winding down in Hama . 
Residents said there were still tanks in parts of the city and security forces were making arrests . 
The Observatory said 1,500 people had been arrested in Hama 's Jarajima neighborhood and troops killed three civilians . 
Like most of Syria , Hama and Deir al-Zor are mainly-Sunni cities , and the crackdowns there resonate with Sunnis , who form the majority in the region and rule most Arab countries . 
The Arab League called for an end to the bloodshed . 
France and Germany repeated calls for Assad to scrap the military campaign which rights groups say has killed at least 1,600 civilians . 
Saudi Arabia 's decision to join countries putting pressure on Assad was unlikely to deter the 45-year old president , who calls the clampdown a national duty , regional experts said . 
Relations between Sunni Saudi Arabia and a Syrian ruling elite from Assad 's minority Alawite sect have been tense since the assassination in 2005 of Rafik al-Hariri , a Western-backed Lebanese Sunni statesman who also had Saudi nationality . 
In Cairo , the head of the most influential school of Sunni Islam , al-Azhar , described the violence as a human tragedy that had to stop . 
`` Blood only fuels the fires of revolutions , '' said Grand Imam Ahmed el-Tayeb . 
Hama is known throughout the region as the site of a crackdown by Assad 's father nearly 30 years ago against Sunni Islamists in which many thousands died . 
Syrian authorities denied that any Deir al-Zor assault had taken place . 
The official state news agency said `` not a single tank has entered Deir al-Zor '' and reports of tanks in the city were `` the work of provocateur satellite channels . '' 
Syrian authorities say they have faced attacks since the protests erupted in March , blaming armed saboteurs for civilian deaths and accusing them of killing 500 security personnel . 
State television broadcast footage Sunday of mutilated bodies floating in the Orontes river in Hama , saying 17 police had been ambushed and killed in the central Syrian city . 
Turkish Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan , who cultivated close ties with Assad but has sharply criticised the crackdown , said Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu would visit Syria Tuesday . 
`` Our message will be decisively delivered , '' he said , drawing a rebuke from an Assad adviser , who described the Turkish statement as unbalanced . 
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton spoke to Davutoglu Sunday , the State Department said , asking him to `` reinforce '' Washington 's position that Syria must immediately return its military to barracks and release prisoners . 
Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters . 
they do n't have any oil ... ... ... . . 
How about Saudi Kingdom , Howmany years are they ruling ? 
, left to Saudi young generation This discussion is now closed . 
We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication . 
An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


Syria unrest : Turkey presses Assad to end crackdown Ahmet Davutoglu -LRB- right -RRB- said he hoped for a peaceful transition in Bashar al-Assad 's Syria Syrian security forces have continued operations to crush protesters , even as the visiting Turkish foreign minister pressed President Bashar al-Assad to stop them . 
Turkey 's Ahmet Davutoglu said the pair discussed `` concrete steps '' for Damascus to halt the killing of civilians . 
Mr Assad said he would not relent in pursuing `` terrorist groups '' . 
As they met , rights activists said at least 28 more people had been killed , including nine in and around Hama . 
More than 1,700 civilians are believed to have been killed and tens of thousands arrested since the uprising began in mid-March . 
Mr Davutoglu , who has helped improve ties between Ankara and Damascus , had been told by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan to pass on a `` tough '' message , demanding an end to the military operations against civilian demonstrators . 
Jonathan Head BBC News , Istanbul This visit was probably Turkey 's last chance to revive a relationship , which has been the foundation of its ambitious new foreign policy . 
Mr Davutoglu clearly had a lot to say . 
The talks lasted for three-and-a-half hours and the exchanges were probably pretty blunt . 
Mr Davutoglu described the methods used by the Syrian security forces as unacceptable , and said he outlined actions Syria must take to stop the bloodshed - the developments of the coming days will be critical , he said . 
But there is no indication that Mr Assad will act on Turkey 's pleas . 
The warm , personal ties between him and the Turkish PM are now in the past . 
Other aspects of the relationship , like trade and tourism , which have flourished in recent years , are at risk . 
Tellingly , Turkey has co-ordinated closely with the US over its response to Syria ; it may now be willing to back tougher action at the UN Security Council . 
Iran , another neighbor wooed by Turkey in recent years , is still backing President Assad . 
Mr Davutoglu used to describe his new foreign policy as one based on zero problems with Turkey 's neighbors . 
He does not use that term any more . 
Over the weekend , Mr Erdogan said not only that he had `` run out of patience '' , but also that from Turkey 's point of view the Syrian crisis was almost an internal problem - their shared border is more than 800km -LRB- 500 miles -RRB- long , says the BBC 's Jonathan Head in Istanbul . 
Many Turks sympathise with anti-government protesters in Syria and there is burning anger at what is happening , our correspondent says . 
Speaking to reporters on his return to Ankara , Mr Davutoglu described the methods used by the Syrian security forces as `` unacceptable '' and outlined actions that Syria had to take to stop the bloodshed . 
`` We discussed ways to prevent confrontation between the army and the people , and tensions like those in Hama , in the most open and clear way , '' he said . 
`` The coming days will be important to see if the expectations are being met . 
We hope that internal peace and calm is achieved and steps for reform are taken . '' 
The Turkish government would be monitoring events in Syria , and maintaining contacts with all parts of society , he added . 
Mr Davutoglu stressed that he hoped for a peaceful transition in Syria that would result in its people determining their own future . 
The official Syrian account of their talks quoted Mr Assad as saying security forces would `` not relent in pursuing terrorist groups '' to ensure the stability of the nation and the safety of its citizens . 
The president also insisted he was serious about a proposed reform program . 
The Syrians quoted Mr Davutoglu as saying he was not carrying a message from anyone , and that Syria would be an example to the whole region once Mr Assad 's reforms were enacted . 
The army has been deployed to crush dissent in the restive cities of Hama , Homs and Deir al-Zour Since Saturday , Saudi Arabia , Bahrain and Kuwait have recalled their ambassadors and demanded an immediate end to the use of military force against civilians . 
The Arab League and Gulf Co-operation Council have also issued statements condemning the crackdown and calling for serious dialogue . 
Egypt 's Foreign Minister Mohammed Amr on Tuesday expressed concern that the situation in Syria was `` heading to the point of no return '' . 
`` Reforms that are soaked in the blood of the martyrs who are dying daily are of no use , '' state media quoted him as saying . 
Envoys from India , Brazil and South Africa are also due in Damascus this week to appeal for an end to the killing of protesters . 
Efforts to persuade Syria 's government to halt the crackdown have had little effect in the past week , during which more than 300 civilians are believed to have been killed , including at least 14 on Monday . 
Despite concerted and ruthless efforts , the regime has not been able to stamp out the flames of defiance '' On Tuesday , at least seven people were killed when troops backed by tanks and armored vehicles overran towns and villages outside the restive central city of Hama , including Soran , Halfaya and Taybat al-Imam , where snipers have been deployed on roofs . 
Two sisters aged six and 11 were reportedly among the five dead brought to a hospital in Taybat al-Imam , while the Syrian National Organisation for Human Rights told Reuters news agency that at least 26 people had died . 
Two people were also killed in the center of Hama , activists said . 
At least three others were killed in the town of Binnish , in Idlib governorate , about 30km -LRB- 19 miles -RRB- from the border with Turkey , in a similar attack . 
Asked why Binnish was stormed , a resident who had fled told Reuters : `` The whole town has been joining in night rallies after Ramadan prayers . '' 
The army also continued its operation to crush dissent in the eastern city of Deir al-Zour , where more than 60 civilians are said to have been killed since Sunday . 
The Local Co-ordination Committees , an activist group that organises and documents the protests , said that more than 200 tanks had been deployed in the center , and that security forces were carrying out raids and detaining residents . 
Deaths were also reported in Homs and the Damascus suburb of Irbin . 
Access to Syria has been severely restricted for international journalists , and it is rarely possible to verify accounts by witnesses and activists . 
Also on Tuesday , former Syrian Defense Minister Gen Ali Habib , who was removed from his post on Monday , denied reports that he was sacked because he was unhappy with the crackdown . 
`` I affirm that they are fabricated stories that run counter to reality and aim at harming Syria and its national army , '' he said on state TV . 
Syria 's anti-government protests , inspired by events in Tunisia and Egypt , first erupted in mid-March after the arrest of a group of teenagers who spray-painted a revolutionary slogan on a wall . 
The protests soon spread , and the UN says 3,500 people have died in the turmoil - mainly protestors but also members of Syria 's security forces - while thousands more have been injured . 
Although the arrest of the teenagers in the southern city of Deraa first prompted people to take to the streets , unrest has since spread to other areas , including Hama , Homs , Latakia , Jisr al-Shughour and Baniyas . 
Demonstrators are demanding greater freedom , an end to corruption , and , increasingly , the ousting of President Bashar al-Assad . 
The government has responded to the protests with overwhelming military force , sending tanks and troops into towns and cities . 
Amateur video footage shows tanks and snipers firing on unarmed protesters . 
There may have been an armed element to the uprising from its early days and army deserters have formed the Free Syrian Army . 
Some of the bloodiest events have taken place in the northern town of Jisr al-Shughour . 
In early June , officials claimed 120 security personnel were killed by armed gangs , however protesters said the dead were shot by troops for refusing to kill demonstrators . 
As the military moved to take control of the town , thousands fled to neighbouring Turkey , taking refuge in camps . 
Although the major cities of Damascus and Aleppo have seen pockets of unrest and some protests , it has not been widespread - due partly to a heavy security presence . 
There have been rallies in the capital - one with an enormous Syrian flag - in support of President Assad , who still receives the backing of many in Syria 's middle class , business elite and minority groups . 
The Assad family has been in power for 40 years , with Bashar al-Assad inheriting office in 2000 . 
The president has opened up the economy , but has continued to jail critics and control the media . 
He is from the minority Alawite sect - an offshoot of Shia Islam - but the country 's 20 million people are mainly Sunni . 
The biggest protests have been in Sunni-majority areas . 
The uprising has cost 3,500 lives , according to the UN and Jordan 's King Abdullah says that President Assad should now step down . 
The Arab League has suspended Syria 's membership and voted for sanctions . 
The EU has frozen the assets of Syrian officials , placed an arms embargo on Syria and banned imports of its oil . 
But fears remain of Syria collapsing into civil war . 
BACK -LCB- current -RCB- of -LCB- total -RCB- NEXT Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria unrest : Assad defiant despite growing pressure Ahmet Davutoglu -LRB- right -RRB- said he hoped for a peaceful transition in Bashar al-Assad 's Syria Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has said he will not relent in pursuing `` terrorist groups '' in the country . 
He was speaking after talks with Turkish FM Ahmet Davutoglu , who had urged Syria to end military operations against civilian demonstrators . 
Security forces meanwhile continued the crackdown , and reports say nearly 30 more people were killed . 
More than 1,700 civilians are believed to have been killed since the uprising began in mid-March . 
Tens of thousands of people have reportedly been arrested . 
Meanwhile , the United States is reported to be preparing to impose new sanctions on the Assad regime . 
The US would target `` major elements of Syria 's financial and commercial infrastructure that are providing critical support to the regime , '' a US official said . 
Mr Assad 's comments came after the meeting with Mr Davutoglu in Damascus on Tuesday . 
The official Syrian account of their talks quoted Mr Assad as saying security forces would `` not relent in pursuing terrorist groups '' to ensure the stability of the nation and the safety of its citizens . 
Jonathan Head BBC News , Istanbul This visit was probably Turkey 's last chance to revive a relationship which has been the foundation of its ambitious new foreign policy . 
Mr Davutoglu clearly had a lot to say . 
The talks lasted for three-and-a-half hours and the exchanges were probably pretty blunt . 
Mr Davutoglu described the methods used by the Syrian security forces as unacceptable , and said he outlined actions Syria must take to stop the bloodshed - the developments of the coming days will be critical , he said . 
But there is no indication that Mr Assad will act on Turkey 's pleas . 
The warm , personal ties between him and the Turkish PM are now in the past . 
Other aspects of the relationship , like trade and tourism , which have flourished in recent years , are at risk . 
Tellingly , Turkey has co-ordinated closely with the US over its response to Syria ; it may now be willing to back tougher action at the UN Security Council . 
Iran , another neighbor wooed by Turkey in recent years , is still backing President Assad . 
Mr Davutoglu used to describe his new foreign policy as one based on zero problems with Turkey 's neighbors . 
He does not use that term any more . 
The president also insisted he was serious about a proposed reform program . 
The Syrians quoted Mr Davutoglu as saying he was not carrying a message from anyone , and that Syria would be an example to the whole region once Mr Assad 's reforms were enacted . 
In his turn , Mr Davutoglu , who had helped improve ties between Ankara and Damascus , said the pair discussed `` concrete steps '' for Damascus to halt the killing of civilians . 
Speaking to reporters on his return to Ankara , he described the methods used by the Syrian security forces as `` unacceptable '' and outlined actions that Syria had to take to stop the bloodshed . 
`` We discussed ways to prevent confrontation between the army and the people , and tensions like those in -LRB- the central city of -RRB- Hama , in the most open and clear way , '' he said . 
`` The coming days will be important to see if the expectations are being met . 
We hope that internal peace and calm is achieved and steps for reform are taken . '' 
Ahead of his visit , Turkey 's top diplomat had been told by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan to pass on a `` tough '' message , demanding an end to Syria 's military operations against civilian demonstrators . 
Over the weekend , Mr Erdogan said not only that he had `` run out of patience '' , but also that from Turkey 's point of view the Syrian crisis was almost an internal problem - their shared border is more than 800km -LRB- 500 miles -RRB- long , says the BBC 's Jonathan Head in Istanbul . 
The army has been deployed to crush dissent in the restive cities of Hama , Homs and Deir al-Zour Many Turks sympathise with anti-government protesters in Syria and there is burning anger at what is happening , our correspondent says . 
Since Saturday , Saudi Arabia , Bahrain and Kuwait have recalled their ambassadors and demanded an immediate end to the use of military force against civilians . 
Envoys from India , Brazil and South Africa are also due in Damascus this week to appeal for an end to the killing of protesters . 
Efforts to persuade Syria 's government to halt the crackdown have had little effect in the past week , during which more than 300 civilians are believed to have been killed , including at least 14 on Monday . 
On Tuesday , at least seven people were killed when troops backed by tanks and armored vehicles overran towns and villages outside Hama , including Soran , Halfaya and Taybat al-Imam , where snipers have been deployed on roofs . 
Two sisters aged six and 11 were reportedly among the five dead brought to a hospital in Taybat al-Imam , while the Syrian National Organisation for Human Rights told Reuters news agency that at least 26 people had died . 
Despite concerted and ruthless efforts , the regime has not been able to stamp out the flames of defiance '' Two people were also killed in the center of Hama , activists said . 
At least three others were reportedly killed in the town of Binnish , in Idlib governorate , about 30km -LRB- 19 miles -RRB- from the border with Turkey , in a similar attack . 
Asked why Binnish was stormed , a resident who had fled told Reuters : `` The whole town has been joining in night rallies after Ramadan prayers . '' 
The army also continued its operation to crush dissent in the eastern city of Deir al-Zour , where more than 60 civilians are said to have been killed since Sunday . 
The Local Co-ordination Committees , an activist group that organises and documents the protests , said that more than 200 tanks had been deployed in the center , and that security forces were carrying out raids and detaining residents . 
Deaths were also reported in Homs and the Damascus suburb of Irbin . 
Access to Syria has been severely restricted for international journalists , and it is rarely possible to verify accounts by witnesses and activists . 
Syria 's anti-government protests , inspired by events in Tunisia and Egypt , first erupted in mid-March after the arrest of a group of teenagers who spray-painted a revolutionary slogan on a wall . 
The protests soon spread , and the UN says 3,500 people have died in the turmoil - mainly protestors but also members of Syria 's security forces - while thousands more have been injured . 
Although the arrest of the teenagers in the southern city of Deraa first prompted people to take to the streets , unrest has since spread to other areas , including Hama , Homs , Latakia , Jisr al-Shughour and Baniyas . 
Demonstrators are demanding greater freedom , an end to corruption , and , increasingly , the ousting of President Bashar al-Assad . 
The government has responded to the protests with overwhelming military force , sending tanks and troops into towns and cities . 
Amateur video footage shows tanks and snipers firing on unarmed protesters . 
There may have been an armed element to the uprising from its early days and army deserters have formed the Free Syrian Army . 
Some of the bloodiest events have taken place in the northern town of Jisr al-Shughour . 
In early June , officials claimed 120 security personnel were killed by armed gangs , however protesters said the dead were shot by troops for refusing to kill demonstrators . 
As the military moved to take control of the town , thousands fled to neighbouring Turkey , taking refuge in camps . 
Although the major cities of Damascus and Aleppo have seen pockets of unrest and some protests , it has not been widespread - due partly to a heavy security presence . 
There have been rallies in the capital - one with an enormous Syrian flag - in support of President Assad , who still receives the backing of many in Syria 's middle class , business elite and minority groups . 
The Assad family has been in power for 40 years , with Bashar al-Assad inheriting office in 2000 . 
The president has opened up the economy , but has continued to jail critics and control the media . 
He is from the minority Alawite sect - an offshoot of Shia Islam - but the country 's 20 million people are mainly Sunni . 
The biggest protests have been in Sunni-majority areas . 
The uprising has cost 3,500 lives , according to the UN and Jordan 's King Abdullah says that President Assad should now step down . 
The Arab League has suspended Syria 's membership and voted for sanctions . 
The EU has frozen the assets of Syrian officials , placed an arms embargo on Syria and banned imports of its oil . 
But fears remain of Syria collapsing into civil war . 
BACK -LCB- current -RCB- of -LCB- total -RCB- NEXT Are you in Syria ? 
What is the situation like where you are ? 
Send us your comments and experiences using the form below . 
If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on . 
In some cases a selection of your comments will be published , displaying your name as you provide it and location , unless you state otherwise . 
Your contact details will never be published . 
When sending us pictures , video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others , take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws . 
Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


UNITED NATIONS | Fri Aug 26 , 2011 5:53 pm EDT UNITED NATIONS -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - A U.S. and European push to impose U.N. Security Council sanctions on Syria for its bloody crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators is meeting fierce resistance from Russia and China , U.N. diplomats said . 
The United States , Britain , France , Germany and Portugal have circulated a draft resolution that calls for sanctions against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad , influential members of his family and close associates . 
They say they want to put it to a vote as soon as possible . 
The measures are not as severe as U.S. sanctions in place and a proposed expansion of European Union steps against Damascus that would forbid the import of Syrian oil . 
Diplomats said there were no plans for a vote yet . 
Russia 's U.N. ambassador , Vitaly Churkin , has hinted that Moscow would use its veto power to knock down the draft if it were put to a vote at the current time . 
Western diplomats said Russia and China were refusing to discuss the draft . 
`` The Russians say they have no instructions , '' a diplomat told Reuters on Friday on condition of anonymity . 
As a result , Western diplomats in New York said their capitals would have to get involved to persuade Moscow and Beijing to join negotiations on the draft resolution to reach a consensus among the 15 Security Council members . 
`` Clearly we need this to be unlocked at the capital level because there is very strong resistance from Russia and China , '' a diplomat said . 
Brazil , India and South Africa have also been reluctant to sanction -- or even condemn -- Syria , whose five-month crackdown on demonstrators has killed at 2,200 , according to U.N. figures from earlier this week . 
But one diplomat said the three countries , all of which aspire to become permanent members of an expanded Security Council , were now `` constructively engaging on the text . '' 
Russia on Friday proposed putting to a vote a rival resolution it has drafted on Syria , but one Western envoy described it as `` toothless '' and unlikely to get the support of the United States and Europeans . 
The Russian text , obtained by Reuters , did not call for sanctions or other punitive measures , simply urging Syrian authorities to speed up their proposed reforms , and the opposition to engage in dialogue with the government . 
U.S. mission spokesman Mark Kornblau said the Security Council should respond to the Syrian government 's continuing violence . 
`` The draft resolution that we have put forward is the right basis for this response , '' he said . 
The council had scheduled an informal closed-door meeting of ambassadors on the draft sanctions resolution on Thursday afternoon , but the Chinese and Russian envoys boycotted the meeting , diplomats said . 
`` You see two permanent members of the Security Council who deliberately leave an empty chair , '' a diplomat said . 
`` We hope that they will engage constructively . '' 
Earlier this week , Churkin told reporters it was not the time to sanction Syria . 
After months of helping block any council action on Syria , Russia and China had backed an August 3 statement by the Security Council that condemned the government 's crackdown and called for it to end . 
Russia , China , Brazil , India and South Africa have repeatedly complained that the NATO intervention in Libya has gone far beyond the U.N. mandate approved by the council in March to protect civilians from violence by the government . 
They say they do not want the same thing to happen in Syria . 
Russia has long had close ties to Syria and is one of its main arms suppliers . 
One of the proposed sanctions is an arms embargo , which would make it illegal for Russian firms to sell weapons to Damascus . 
The sanctions would impose a travel ban on 22 of Assad 's relatives and associates and an asset freeze on 23 Syrians , including Assad . 
Envoys said Assad was excluded from the travel ban in order to give him an escape route . 
`` We want him to leave the country , '' a diplomat said . 
The United States and EU have urged Assad to step down . 
Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters . 
Has Washington and western Europe lost their minds ? 
They think that after Libya 's destruction Russia , China and global community would allow this to happen to Syria . 
Just because these are smaller countries with out much influence , their being bossed around . 
How can anyone at UNSC vote for another sanction , after what happened to UN Resolution 1973 on Libya ? 
Humanitarian imperialism is never about humanity , only a pretext for oil . 
This discussion is now closed . 
We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication . 
An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


Arab League chief Nabil al-Arabi to visit Syria Nabil al-Arabi will try to negotiate an end to the crisis in Syria , the Arab League says Arab League Secretary General Nabil al-Arabi is to visit Syria to try to resolve the crisis in the country . 
He will take with him an `` initiative to solve the crisis '' , the league said , without giving further details . 
It followed a meeting of Arab foreign ministers in the Egyptian capital , Cairo . 
They also called on Damascus to stop the violence and usher in reforms . 
The UN says more than 2,200 people have died since protests against President Bashar al-Assad began in March . 
The BBC 's Bethany Bell in Cairo says the league is increasing pressure on Damascus but has not suspended Syria from the group , as it did with Libya earlier this year . 
A statement said ministers `` asked the secretary-general of the Arab League to carry out an urgent mission to Damascus and transmit the Arab initiative to resolve the crisis to the Syrian leadership '' . 
Ministers also called for `` respect -LRB- for -RRB- the right of the Syrian people to live in security and ... their legitimate aspirations for political and social reforms '' . 
The league said Syria 's stability was crucial to the whole region . 
But Syria has rejected the statement in a diplomatic note to the Arab League that the AFP news agency says it has seen . 
The note says the statement amounts to `` a clear violation ... of the principles of the Arab League charter and of the foundations of joint Arab action , '' the AFP reports . 
President Assad is coming under enormous international pressure to end the bloodletting - even from his allies . 
Turkey said on Sunday it had lost confidence in its neighbor . 
President Abdullah Gul said the situation in Syria had `` reached a level that everything is too little , too late '' . 
`` Everyone should know that we are with the Syrian people . . 
What is fundamental is the people , '' he told Anatolia news agency . 
Iran - Syria 's closest ally - has also called on President Assad to listen to his people 's demands . 
`` The government should answer to the demands of its people , be it Syria , Yemen or other countries , '' Iranian Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Salehi was quoted as saying on Saturday . 
Russia opposes a draft resolution submitted to the UN Security Council by US , France , Britain and Germany which calls for a freeze of President Assad 's assets and an arms embargo against Syria . 
Moscow has submitted its own draft resolution , which calls for the Syrian government to speed up reforms and for the opposition to take part in political dialogue . 
It is sending a `` very important envoy '' to Damascus on Monday , Russian UN ambassador Vitaly Churkin was quoted by Itar-Tass news agency as saying . 
Meanwhile , reports continue to come in of further violence in Syria . 
Sit-ins and protests were reportedly held overnight around Damascus after security officials stormed the al-Rifai mosque in the capital 's Kafar Susseh district as people were leaving prayers . 
Activists said at least one person was killed and several wounded , including the mosque 's elderly imam . 
Shootings were also reported in the Damascus suburb of Saqba , northern Idlib province and the central city of Homs . 
Most foreign journalists have been barred from Syria , making it difficult to verify reports from local activists and officials . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


EU steps up Syria sanctions with ban on oil imports The United Nations says more than 2,200 people have been killed in six months of protests The EU has stepped up sanctions on Syria by banning imports of its oil , as protests again broke out against the rule of President Bashar al-Assad . 
Oil accounts for about 25 % of Syria 's income and EU member states take about 95 % of its oil exports . 
Dutch Foreign Minister Uri Rosenthal said the sanctions would `` go straight to the heart of the regime '' . 
Meanwhile , at least 14 people were reportedly killed as protesters again came out in force across the country . 
Activists said seven had died in suburbs of the capital Damascus , four in the central city of Homs , and another three in Deir al-Zour in the east . 
The United Nations says more than 2,200 people have been killed since pro-democracy demonstrations began in mid-March . 
The UK Foreign Office said the European Union had agreed at official level to ban imports of Syrian oil into the EU to increase pressure on the Syrian regime over its crackdown against anti-government protest . 
A spokesperson said it was hoped the agreement would be signed off by EU foreign ministers meeting in Poland on Friday and Saturday and come into immediate effect . 
However , Italy has won a concession allowing it to fulfil existing contracts until 15 November . 
Owen Bennett-Jones BBC News , Syrian-Lebanese border These latest sanctions are only from the EU , so the Syrians could find outlets on other markets . 
What we are seeing is an attempt by Western governments to be seen to be doing something - to use rhetoric , sanctions , everything short of military action to give the impression that they really are serious about pressing for change in Syria . 
There is no real indication such actions have made President Assad any weaker now than when the uprising started . 
But the protesters have been out on the streets for nearly six months now and show no sign whatsoever of stopping . 
The president has not got control of the streets and it is unclear that he will be able to regain it . 
This is not really an EU or regional matter - this is going to be sorted out within Syria . 
There are two very powerful forces ; the people on the streets - mainly from provincial towns and cities - and the army and security apparatus . 
The two have shown themselves to be pretty evenly matched . 
That struggle will continue , and that is what will determine Syria 's future - not what is said in the region or further afield in the West . 
The EU also added four more Syrian officials and three Syrian groups to its list of those affected by an EU travel ban and asset freeze . 
Polish Foreign Minister Radoslaw Sikorski said : `` President Assad is carrying out massacres in his own country . '' 
In Paris on Thursday , US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton condemned Mr Assad 's `` brutality against unarmed citizens '' , adding : `` The violence must stop and he needs to step aside . '' 
The US has already banned the import of Syrian oil . 
UK PM David Cameron has expressed frustration that a tough UN resolution on Syria has not yet been found . 
He told the BBC on Friday : `` We 've been at the vanguard , arguing for a different approach to Syria . 
What -LRB- Mr Assad -RRB- is doing is appalling . 
He 's had his chance to demonstrate he 's serious about reform and he 's blown it . '' 
Russia , which has a veto on the Security Council , refuses to back a resolution imposing an arms embargo or asset freeze . 
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe meanwhile said his country would increase contact with Syrian opposition figures . 
Last month , dissidents set up a `` Transitional National Council '' to co-ordinate the campaign against President Assad , following the example of the rebels in Libya . 
Burhan Ghalioun , a professor of political sociology at the University of Paris III , was appointed chairman . 
Anti-government protests again broke out in various towns and cities after Friday prayers . 
Activists reported that security forces were shooting at a number of demonstrations , including in the provinces of Idlib and Deraa , in suburbs of Damascus , in Aleppo and in the central city of Hama . 
The London-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said Syrian forces had surrounded a number of mosques in protest hotspots , including Deraa and the eastern city of Deir al-Zour . 
Production - est 400,000 barrels per day in 2009 -LRB- less than 1 % of world production -RRB- , ranking Syria 33rd in world Revenue - projected at $ 3.2 bn for 2010 ; providing 25 % of state revenue Exports - about 150,000 barrels per day - 95 % to EU , mainly Germany , Italy and France Reserves - est 2.5 bn barrels -LRB- 2010 -RRB- Another activist group , the Local Coordination Committees -LRB- LCC -RRB- , said there had been a mass demonstration in Hama outside the home of Adnan Bakkour , to support the Hama attorney-general 's decision to resign in protest at the killing of protesters . 
The LCC reported another big protest in the northern city of Amuda , against Russian arms sales to Syria . 
Syrian state television has denied most reports of protests , calling them `` imaginary '' , although it said security forces had killed `` two members of armed groups '' in Talbisseh . 
Access to Syria has been severely restricted for international journalists and it is rarely possible to verify accounts by witnesses and activists . 
Activists on their Facebook page , Syrian Revolution 2011 , had urged people out on to the streets under the slogan `` death rather than humiliation '' , adding : `` We are ready to die in the millions as martyrs . '' 
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said seven people had been killed on Thursday , in Homs , Idlib and Deir al-Zour . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


AMMAN | Fri Sep 9 , 2011 6:39 pm EDT AMMAN -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - - Syrian forces shot dead six pro-democracy protesters on Friday , activists said , after demonstrations called for foreign help and Turkey indicated that its patience was running thin with the bloody crackdown . 
Protesters took to the streets in their thousands after Friday prayers as they have weekly for six months . 
But , ahead of a visit by the Arab League secretary general to Damascus on Saturday , residents and activists reported an easing in the use of live ammunition by Syrian troops and security police . 
In a change in their rhetoric , demonstrators demanded international protection to stop civilian killings in what has become one of the most violent responses to protest of the `` Arab Spring '' uprisings sweeping the Middle East and North Africa . 
`` Where is the international community ? '' 
shouted protesters in the Damascus suburb of Qudsaya . 
In Hajar al-Aswad , on the southern edge of Damascus , protesters carried a large green , white and red-striped old Syrian flag , dating back half a century to the era before Assad 's Baath Party seized control of Syria . 
`` After all these killings and assaults , where is international protection ? '' 
read a banner carried by protesters who chanted : `` The people want the execution of the president . '' 
Assad has responded to the protests , inspired by Arab popular uprisings that have toppled three autocratic leaders in North Africa this year , with military assaults in which the United Nations says 2,200 people have died . 
A Syrian grassroots organization said security forces have killed 3,000 civilians . 
The killings on Friday occurred in the city of Homs , 165-km -LRB- 100 miles -RRB- north of Damascus , in the tribal province of Deir al-Zor and in the northwestern province of Idlib near Turkey -- regions that have seen raids in the last several weeks by tank-backed troops and militiamen loyal to Assad . 
The death toll was lower than many previous Fridays . 
`` It seems that the regime eased its assaults a bit today after hearing the words of Turkey and to look better ahead of the Arab League visit , '' said one activist in the city of Hama , which saw some of the heaviest military assaults . 
`` But this is for public consumption . 
We have been seeing a spike in the assassinations of street leaders , arrests , torture and deaths in prison , '' said the activist , who did not want to be named for fear of being apprehended . 
Syrian authorities do not comment on arrests or suspected torture but have said in the past that any arrests are made in accordance with the constitution . 
The Arab League said that its secretary-general , Nabil Elaraby , will visit Syria on Saturday and Arab foreign ministers will meet next week to convey concerns . 
Arab states led by Saudi Arabia have called on Assad to halt the violence . 
Syria 's powerful neighbor Turkey indicated that its patience was running thin given the lack of progress in its efforts to convince Assad to halt military assaults . 
`` Mr Assad , how can you say you are killing terrorists when you were actually shelling Latakia from the sea and hitting civilian targets ? '' 
Turkish Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan said on al-Jazeera Television in an interview broadcast on Thursday . 
`` We are moving patiently now . 
But after consultations , we will give our final word , which will show an exit from the tunnel , because we are not the ones who put Assad on this dead-end road . 
It was he and those around him who entered this dead-end road . '' 
Western countries have imposed limited economic sanctions on Syria but have not seriously considered direct intervention along the lines of the NATO bombing of Libya that helped topple its leader Muammar Gaddafi . 
`` The Syrian people demand international protection for civilians , '' read a banner in Idlib . 
On Thursday the Syrian opposition issued its first direct call for foreign intervention . 
The Syrian Revolution General Commission , an umbrella bloc of activists , appealed to world powers to send human rights monitors . 
Syrian forces arrested dozens of people in house-to-house raids in Homs on Thursday after military operations that killed at least 27 civilians on Wednesday . 
Activists and residents also reported more defections among the rank-and-file army . 
Human Rights Watch said security forces `` forcibly removed 18 wounded people '' from a hospital in Homs on Wednesday , and also prevented medical personnel from reaching wounded people . 
The European Union , which banned imports of Syrian crude oil last week , moved closer on Friday to banning investment in the oil industry , EU diplomats said . 
Syria is only a small oil producer but nearly all of its exports last year were bought by Europe and European oil firms have investments there . 
However , there has been no hint in the West of an appetite for military action along Libyan lines . 
Syria has three times Libya 's population , and unlike isolated Libya it is intricately linked to neighbors on the fault lines of Mid-East conflicts . 
Syria has long had a strong regional alliance with Iran , but in an unusual sign of unease Iran 's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad urged Assad to open talks with the opposition , saying a military crackdown is `` never the right solution . '' 
Iran crushed its own anti-government street protests in 2009 after Ahmadinejad 's contested re-election . 
The Syrian military launched offensives against the cities of Latakia , Aleppo and Deir al-Zor last month . 
The authorities say they are fighting a foreign conspiracy to divide Syria and blame `` armed terrorist groups '' for the bloodshed , and for killing 500 members of the army and police . 
In Idlib province near the border with Turkey , at least three army defectors were killed by the military as it raided the Jabal al-Zawiya area in pursuit of deserters . 
Activists reported a similar operation in Qusair near the Lebanese border against defectors on Friday . 
Assad , the ruling hierarchy and most of the army officer corps are from the minority Alawite sect , an offshoot of Shi'ite Islam . 
The majority of Syrians , including most rank-and-file soldiers , are Sunni Muslims . 
Russia , which has blocked a U.N. measure to censure Syria , hinted that it is ready to discuss a possible U.N. Security Council resolution but will support a document only if it targets the opposition as well as the authorities for censure . 
Syrian opposition figures met officials in Moscow on Friday , urging Russia to do more to support protesters . 
`` The incomprehensible and contradictory position of the Russian leadership on what is happening in Syria could hurt Russia 's image in the future , '' said dissident Ammar al-Qurabi . 
Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters . 
This discussion is now closed . 
We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication . 
An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


BEIRUT | Sat Sep 10 , 2011 10:45 pm EDT BEIRUT -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - Arab League chief Nabil Elaraby said he had agreed a series of measures with President Bashar al-Assad on Saturday to help end violence in Syria , as activists said Assad 's forces killed six people in their relentless crackdown on dissent . 
After talks in Damascus with Assad , Elaraby said he would present the proposed measures to Arab foreign ministers who are due to discuss Syria 's five-month uprising against the Syrian president and his military assault on protesters . 
`` I focused on the importance of an open national dialogue that encompasses all personalities on the basis of national reconciliation , in which the Arab League plays a main role , '' Elaraby told journalists on his return to Egypt from Syria . 
He did not give details . 
The British-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said five people had been killed in the Bab Amro district of Homs during a sweep by troops and security forces , shortly before the Arab League secretary-general held talks with Assad . 
A 45-year-old man was shot dead by security forces at a checkpoint in the northern province of Idlib , it added . 
Assad has responded to the wave of street protests , inspired by Arab uprisings that have overthrown three North African leaders , with a mix of repression and promises of reform that protesters have dismissed as too little too late . 
`` I asserted to President Assad that the starting point is the need for reforms to emerge from the current crisis which Syria is passing through , '' Elaraby said . 
Foreign ministers of the 22-member Arab League told Syria two weeks ago to work to end the violence `` and resort to reason before it 's too late . '' 
They will meet again to discuss Syria on September 13 . 
The Cairo-based organization has been under pressure to speak out more openly following the uprisings that ousted leaders in Tunisia and Egypt and led to the overthrow of Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi -- achieved with NATO air intervention endorsed by the Arab League . 
The United States and European Union have imposed sanctions on Syria , and regional powers have grown increasingly critical of Assad , but no country has proposed the kind of international military action that helped bring down Gaddafi . 
Authorities in Damascus blame armed groups for the violence and say 500 soldiers and police have been killed since the unrest erupted in the southern city of Deraa in mid-March . 
The United Nations says 2,200 people have died in the uprising , while a Syrian grassroots organization says security forces have killed 3,000 civilians . 
Syria has barred most independent media , making it hard to verify accounts by activists and authorities . 
Activists said six people were killed during protests after midday prayers on Friday . 
In a change to their demands , demonstrators called for international protection to stop civilian killings in what has become one of the most violent responses to the Arab uprisings that have swept the Middle East and North Africa . 
Their calls were echoed on Saturday at a meeting in Vienna of Syrian expatriates which brought together 30 representatives of Syrian civil associations in 15 European countries . 
`` After the events in Syria ... we are distancing ourselves from the Syrian regime and declaring it illegitimate . 
Our further goal is to support the Syrian revolution and the opposition , '' said Amer Alkhatib , who described himself as spokesman for the Syrian community in Austria . 
Alkhatib said the group was collecting money to support the families of victims and lobbying host governments to take a hard line on the Assad government . 
It was also seeking a United Nations commitment to protect civilians , though it was not calling for foreign military intervention on the ground . 
Syria 's powerful neighbor Turkey has indicated that its patience is wearing thin given the lack of progress in its efforts to convince Assad to halt the military assaults . 
The European Union , which banned imports of Syrian crude oil last week , moved closer on Friday to banning investment in the oil industry , EU diplomats said . 
Syria is only a small oil producer but nearly all of its exports last year were bought by Europe , and European oil firms have investments there . 
However , there has been no hint in the West of any appetite for military action along Libyan lines . 
Syria has three times Libya 's population and , unlike Libya , is intricately linked to neighbors on the faultlines of Middle East conflicts . 
neighbors Syria has long had a strong alliance with Iran but , in an unusual sign of unease , President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad urged Assad this week to open talks with the opposition , saying a military crackdown was `` never the right solution . '' 
Iran crushed its own anti-government street protests in 2009 after Ahmadinejad 's re-election . 


CAIRO | Tue Sep 13 , 2011 5:44 pm BST CAIRO -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - Turkish Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan said on Tuesday it was time to run the Palestinian flag up over the United Nations in a rallying call to Arab states ahead of a Palestinian U.N. membership bid opposed by Washington . 
Speaking to Arab foreign ministers , he said Israel had undermined its legitimacy by irresponsible behavior . 
He made no specific accusations but has in the past criticised Israel for building settlements on occupied land envisaged as part of a Palestinian state . 
He has also protested over Israel 's offensive against Gaza in 2008 , which largely spelt the end of a close alliance between Turkey and Israel , and its attack on a Turkish ship heading for Gaza that killed nine people last year . 
Erdogan 's recent criticism of Israel has drawn strong support in the Arab world , buttressing his campaign to promote Ankara 's blend of Islam and democracy as a model for movements that have toppled several Arab autocrats , including Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak . 
`` While Israel is trying to secure its legitimacy in our region on one hand , it is taking irresponsible steps which unsettle its legitimacy on the other , '' Erdogan said . 
With the souring of relations between Turkey and Israel , military cooperation has been frozen and diplomatic ties downgraded . 
Erdogan 's tour will include Tunisia and Libya , which have all witnessed the fall of entrenched leaders to grassroots revolts this year , challenging the old order across the region . 
`` Erdogan , Erdogan ! '' 
cheered a group of demonstrators as the Turkish prime minister left the headquarters of the Arab League in Cairo where he had been speaking . 
They were calling for change in Syria , whose military is trying to stamp out popular unrest . 
Displaying a populist touch , Erdogan stopped and shook the demonstrators ' hands . 
He told an Arab League ministers meeting that international recognition of a Palestinian state was `` not an option but an obligation . '' 
`` It 's time to raise the Palestinian flag at the United Nations . 
Let 's raise the Palestinian flag and let that flag be the symbol of peace and justice in the Middle East . 
Let 's contribute to securing well deserved peace and stability in the Middle East , '' he said . 
Palestinians will bid for full membership of the United Nations later this month , a move opposed by the United States , which has a veto . 
Arab states endorsed it at the Cairo meeting . 
Erdogan said Turkey offered its help to Arab nations facing turmoil but , in an apparent reference to Syria , he said some had turned down the offer . 
`` However , we continue to insist they meet their people 's demands . '' 
Arab League Secretary-General Nabil Elaraby introduced the Turkish prime minister saying : `` All the Arab peoples appreciate what you are doing . 
We consider that there is a strong friendly state who is always standing on the side of justice . '' 
Outside the League , Syrian protester Samer Zaher , 30 , said : `` Erdogan has turned into an Arab hero ... We have not found a leader as powerful as him addressing -LRB- Syrian President Bashar al-Assad -RRB- and asking him to quit . '' 
Turkey expelled the Israeli ambassador last week in a row over an Israeli raid last year that killed nine Turks on a flotilla bound for Gaza , the Palestinian enclave controlled by the Islamist group Hamas and under blockade by Israel . 
While winning over ordinary Arabs , particularly because of non-Arab Turkey 's tough line towards Israel , Erdogan 's growing popularity and clout could be a headache for more cautious Arab leaders who could see their own influence overshadowed . 
`` Turkey wants to play a regional role , especially when Egypt is busy with the revolution . 
Turkey thinks it 's best placed to play this leadership role , '' said Adel Soliman , head of Cairo 's International Centre for Future and Strategic Studies . 
Egypt has traditionally seen itself as the leading diplomatic player in the Arab region . 
But its position has been eroded by wealthy Gulf countries , such as Qatar , and lately overshadowed by Turkey , with its fast expanding economy . 
Erdogan met Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi , who heads the military council that took over after Hosni Mubarak was ousted by mass street demonstrations in February . 
Egypt has also been embroiled in a dispute with Israel after Israel shot dead five Egyptian border guards in repelling cross-border raiders it said were Palestinian militants . 
But Egypt 's generals have faced popular criticism for not taking a firmer line . 
Cairo said it would expel Israel 's ambassador but did not follow through with threat . 
Protesters attacked Israel 's embassy in Cairo last week , prompting the ambassador to fly home and an embarrassed Egyptian government to affirm to Washington , its major aid donor , that it remained committed to a 1979 peace treaty with Israel . 
Egypt has received billions of dollars in U.S. military and other aid since making peace with the Jewish state , so the military council faces a difficult balancing act responding to public calls for an assertive policy towards Israel . 
Erdogan was cheered by a crowd when he arrived in Cairo and met by Egyptian Prime Minister Essam Sharaf . 
Many appeared to be from Islamist groups such as the Muslim Brotherhood , who approve of Erdogan 's bringing Islamists into mainstream Turkish politics . 
`` Erdogan , Erdogan -- a big welcome from the Brothers ! '' 
`` Hero Erdogan '' was written on a photo of the prime minister . 
An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


China and Russia veto UN resolution condemning Syria Susan Rice walked out of the UN meeting when Syria 's envoy criticised the US China and Russia have vetoed a UN Security Council resolution condemning Syria over its crackdown on anti-government protesters . 
The European-drafted resolution had been watered down to try to avoid the vetoes , dropping a direct reference to sanctions against Damascus . 
But Moscow and Beijing said the draft contained no provision against outside military intervention in Syria . 
The US envoy to the UN said Washington was `` outraged '' by the vote . 
Susan Rice , who walked out after the vote , said opposition to the resolution was a `` cheap ruse by those who would rather sell arms to the Syrian regime than stand with the Syrian people '' . 
The result is a huge blow to European and US efforts on the Syria issue , the BBC 's Laura Trevelyan in New York says . 
More than 2,700 people have been killed across Syria since the crackdown began in March , the UN estimates . 
The government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad says it is in the process of introducing reforms and is speaking to members of the opposition . 
It blames the unrest on armed gangs . 
Nine countries backed the resolution in the 15-member council , while four more abstained during the vote late on Tuesday . 
Laura Trevelyan BBC News , New York Russia , an ally of Syria 's since the Cold War , has argued that a UN Security Council resolution on Syria could be used to justify military action against the government there - Moscow and Bejing say the UN resolution authorising the use of force to protect civilians in Libya was misused by Nato to bring down Col Gaddafi 's government . 
Though Western diplomats say they will not rest until the Security Council responds to the repression in Syria , this vote has exposed the deep divisions within the 15 members . 
More than six months after the Syrian uprising began , the body supposed to promote international peace and stability has been unable to agree on a course of action . 
But the resolution - which was drafted by France with the co-operation of Britain , Germany and Portugal - was still defeated because of the vetoes from two of the council 's five permanent members . 
This was despite the fact that the text had been changed three times by the European allies , who had tried to accommodate Russia 's and China 's objections . 
The resolution referred to `` targeted measures '' - instead of sanctions - if the clampdown in Syria continued . 
But Russia 's UN Ambassador Vitaly Churkin said that draft was based on `` the philosophy of confrontation '' . 
He said the threat of an ultimatum of sanctions against the Syrian authorities was `` unacceptable '' and that the approach went `` against the principle of a peaceful settlement of a crisis on the basis of a full Syrian national dialogue '' . 
He repeated Moscow 's concerns that a resolution could lead to a Libyan-style foreign military intervention in Syria and said pressure should also be put on the Syrian opposition movement to refrain from violence and disassociate itself from `` extremists '' . 
But Mr Churkin added that Moscow would like the Syrian regime to be `` quicker with implementing the promised changes '' . 
In favor - Bosnia and Herzegovina , Colombia , France , Gabon , Germany , Nigeria , Portugal , UK , US China 's UN ambassador Li Baodong said that Beijing opposed the idea of `` interference in -LRB- Syria 's -RRB- internal affairs . '' 
He added that `` sanction or threat of sanction does not help resolve the question of Syria '' but `` may further complicate the situation '' . 
The Libyan conflict has sharpened divisions among Security Council members , with both Moscow and Beijing saying that the resolution authorising the use of force to protect civilians was misused by Nato to bring down Col Muammar Gaddafi 's regime . 
Our correspondent says Tuesday 's vote exposes the deep rift at the UN between the major powers , and the complete difference of approach in how to deal with Mr Assad 's government and its crackdown . 
After the vote , France 's UN Ambassador Gerard Araud said the veto showed `` disdain for the legitimate interests that have been fought for in Syria '' since the protests in the country began . 
But he added that `` no veto can give give carte blanche to the Syrian parties who have lost full legitimacy in assassinating and killing their people '' . 
There have been six months of protests in Syria and reports of some 2,700 deaths `` Calls from the Arab League for an end to this bloodbath and statements from neighbouring countries to the suffering of the Syrian people show that this veto goes against the sense of history underway in Syria and throughout the region , '' said Mr Araud . 
The US envoy , Susan Rice , said : `` The United States is outraged that this council has utterly failed to address an urgent moral challenge and a growing threat to regional peace and security . 
`` Today the courageous people of Syria can now see who on this council supports their yearning for liberty and universal human rights and who does not , '' she said . 
Syria 's envoy to the UN , Bashar Jaafari , said his country was `` astounded '' by the council 's efforts to `` undermine stability , security and co-existence '' in the region and in Syria . 
Ms Rice walked out in protest when Mr Bashar said the US was using its veto power to protect Israel , which could be seen as `` partaking in a genocide '' . 
Washington said earlier it hoped the council would send a strong message to Syria . 
Germany said the world had to show solidarity with Syrians on the streets . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


AMMAN | Sat Oct 15 , 2011 5:35 pm EDT AMMAN -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - Syrian security forces shot dead three mourners and injured 20 on Saturday when they fired on a protester funeral procession in central Damascus while troops loyal to President Bashar al-Assad fought army defectors west of the capital , witnesses said . 
In his latest move to try and defuse discontent , part of a wave of popular unrest against repressive autocrats across the Arab world , Assad formed a committee to draft a new constitution within four months , the official news agency SANA said . 
The move raised the possibility that a clause designating his Baath Party , which seized power in a 1963 coup , as `` leader of the state and society '' could be scrapped . 
In a sign of growing regional pressure on Assad to undertake genuine reform after seven months of street protests , al Jazeera television said Arab foreign ministers would hold an emergency meeting on Sunday in Cairo to discuss the crisis in Syria . 
Gulf Arab states had earlier called for an immediate meeting of the Arab League to discuss the humanitarian situation in Syria and study ways to stop the bloodshed . 
Assad has sent troops and tanks into restive cities and towns to try put down the unrest but protests have persisted , spreading to suburbs and rural regions around cities as troops have occupied main squares in urban centres . 
The president blames the violence on foreign-backed `` armed terrorist groups '' who authorities say have killed 1,100 soldiers and police . 
The United Nations said the military crackdown on unrest has killed 3,000 people , including at least 187 children . 
With the deployment of thousands of police and militiamen loyal to Assad , whose family has ruled Syria for 41 years , central neighborhoods of Damascus have remained largely free of pro-democracy demonstrations . 
But at Saturday 's funeral for a ten-year-old boy , Ibrahim Sheiban , killed in a protest rally the day before , `` passions were running high , '' said one of the witnesses , a private sector employee who asked not to be identified for his own protection . 
`` The body was wrapped in white and thousands behind it were chanting ` the people want the execution of the president ' and ` we will be free despite you Bashar ' , '' he said . 
Some mourners began throwing stones at the security forces , who fired back with live ammunition , the witness told Reuters by phone from the scene in the Damascus district of Maidan . 
The killings in Maidan brought to at least nine the number of people killed while protesting against Assad in the last 48 hours , according to rights activists . 
A human rights organization said Assad 's forces on Saturday also shot dead a prominent activist in eastern Syria who helped organize peaceful demonstrations in the region after a military crackdown on unrest two months ago . 
Ziad al-Obeidi , 42 , was killed as he fled from security police who stormed his home in the provincial capital of Deir al-Zor , the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said . 
There was no comment from the Syrian authorities , who do issue statements on individual killings but deny assassinating their opponents . 
`` Ziad was adamant that non-violence was the only way to counter the regime 's bloodletting . 
He had three kids and barely enough money to put bread on the table , yet the authorities keep saying that this uprising is being lead by foreign-backed armed terrorists , '' Observatory director Rami Abdel Rahman told Reuters by telephone from Britain . 
The United Nations called on Friday for international protection for civilians from a crackdown it said could kindle civil war between Syria 's majority Sunni Muslims and members of Assad 's minority Alawite sect , an offshoot of Shi'ite Islam . 
Sunnis also comprise most of the army 's rank and file while the officer corps is comprised primarily of Alawites effectively under the command of Assad 's younger brother , Maher . 
The authorities have expelled most independent media from Syria , make it difficult to verify accounts of events . 
`` The onus is on all members of the international community to take protective action in a collective manner , before the continual ruthless repression and killings drive the country into a full-blown civil war , '' the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights , Navi Pillay , said in a statement . 
`` As more members of the military refuse to attack civilians and change sides , the crisis is already showing worrying signs of descending into an armed struggle , '' she added . 
Assad was quoted by state media this week as saying Syria had `` passed the most difficult stage '' of the uprising . 
But opposition leaders say the mounting death toll will only turn more Syrians against the 46-year old president . 
In the Zabani Plain , around 35 km -LRB- 22 miles -RRB- west of Damascus on the fringes of the Anti-Lebanon mountain range , army defectors fought loyalist troops for several hours on Saturday , according to local residents . 
`` I saw army jeeps towing two -LRB- vehicles -RRB- belonging to State Security that were riddled with bullets . 
Blood was practically seeping from them , '' said a resident of the resort town , who gave his name as Mohammad . 
`` They ransacked houses in Zabadani overnight looking for deserters and activists . '' 
Sticking to a strategy of dismissing the protests as a foreign plot to divide Syria while touting `` reforms that safeguard Syria 's sovereignty , '' Assad formed a committee on Saturday to draft a new constitution within four months . 
`` President Assad issued today decree number 33 which stipulates forming a committee to prepare for a draft constitution , '' the official news agency SANA said . 
The constitution , which was changed by Assad 's late father , President Hafez al-Assad , in the 1970s , discourages any political pluralism by stipulating that the ruling Baath Party is `` leader of the state and society . '' 
The Syrian opposition has called for the clause to be scrapped , along with another that says the president can only be nominated by his Baath Party as well as numerous laws passed in the last 50 years which they say allow Assad and his security apparatus to practice repression and corruption with impunity . 
New laws issued by Assad in the past three months permit `` parties committed to democratic principles '' and established an election commission . 
But they also preserved quotas that retain the majority of seats for farmers and workers , whose representatives are drawn from state-controlled unions . 
Syria 's current parliament , a rubber stamp body , does not have a single opposition figure . 
We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion , anecdotes , links and data . 
Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters . 
China dn Russia will never wield a veto against syria . 
BOth China and Russia use the same tactics and methods to control the population in order to maintain their supremecy and power . 
To assert that Assad is wrong would entail China and Russia admiting the same thing . 
Just look at Tiamin Square in China or its arrest of the the NObel Laureate . 
The problem is even if Assad is overthrown , just another dictatorial regime will take its place and another group of people will die . 
Respect of human life unfortunately is non existant and the cost of a life is cheap . 
The other issue is more simple , if Assad is dumped , and that is a big if ... then the Army will take over to maintain the status quo . 
THe powers that be have too much invested in maintaining the current system both monetarily and power wise . 
Look at Egypt , over through the Mouburak system and the Army is putting themselves in charge . 
SO what has changed nothing excetp for the poor dead fools who thought they could change the system . 
This discussion is now closed . 
We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication . 
An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


By Marwa Awad and Khaled Yacoub Oweis CAIRO\/AMMAN | Sun Oct 16 , 2011 6:55 pm EDT CAIRO\/AMMAN -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - Arab foreign ministers stopped short of suspending Syria from their regional organization on Sunday over its military crackdown on dissent , instead urging the government and opposition to negotiate an end to the violence . 
`` We will call all of the parties of the opposition and government to hold a dialogue within 15 days , '' the League 's Secretary General Nabil Elaraby said after the meeting . 
It should be held at Arab League headquarters and a Syria-based committee would be set up to work to end violence . 
Disappointed protesters began banging on the doors of the Arab League building as Qatar 's Prime Minister Hamad bin Jassim al-Thani read out the decision . 
`` The people demand the suspension of Syria 's membership at the Arab League ! '' 
Initial reaction from Syria was also negative . 
`` Syria has reservations on the call by the League for a comprehensive dialogue to take place at its headquarters and says it is capable of running its own affairs and security , '' Syrian state television said . 
Arab governments were silent for months while Syrian President Bashar al-Assad 's troops tried to put down the uprising with tanks and machineguns . 
But the country is now in danger of descending into a civil war that could destabilise its neighbors . 
Arab states have demanded an end to the bloodshed and called for political reform but do not agree on how to apply pressure . 
A permanent delegate to the League told Reuters earlier that the emergency meeting of the ministers would consider suspending Syria 's membership but that some states opposed such a move . 
The United Nations says 3,000 people have died in the crackdown including at least 187 children . 
Thousands of Syrian troops opened fire in the resort town of Zabadani on the border with Lebanon on Sunday , residents and activists said , a day after heavy fighting in the area between army defectors and loyalist forces . 
More than 100 civil society groups issued a collective appeal to the League 's Secretary General Nabil Elaraby to isolate Syria 's government and cooperate with United Nations investigations of alleged human rights abuses . 
`` I met with all parties of the opposition and they all said they were against suspending Syria 's membership as that would cut off all links between Syria and the Arab League , '' Elaraby told reporters . 
Assad has intensified his crackdown on protests demanding his resignation . 
Russia and China joined forces this month to veto a European-drafted U.N. Security Council resolution condemning Syria 's government over the crackdown , drawing condemnation from the United States and its Western allies . 
Syria 's ambassador to the League , Youssef Ahmed , told Arab ministers the timing of Sunday 's meeting was `` strange and suspicious . '' 
`` We hope it is not connected in one way or another to the failure of the United States and its European allies against Syria in the Security Council , although we believe that to be the case , '' he said . 
Qatar 's al-Thani denied the meeting , called by Arab Gulf states , was a response to diplomatic pressure . 
`` I assure you that the GCC -LRB- Gulf Cooperation Council -RRB- countries , when they asked for the meeting , did not ask for it under any agendas or dictates from outside but because they care for Syria and for the people of Syria , '' he said . 
Before the meeting , 121 civil society groups urged Arab leaders to protect Syrians from a government they accuse of trying to stir sectarian tension and provoke a civil war . 
`` The continued failure to respond to the mounting crisis in Syria will fundamentally delegitimise Arab leadership across the region , '' they said in the open letter to Elaraby . 
In a consultative session ahead of their main meeting at the League on Sunday , ministers agreed to call again for an end to the bloodshed but `` disagreed on the mechanism to achieve that , '' an unnamed diplomat told Egyptian state news agency MENA . 
`` They agreed on the refusal of any foreign intervention and the need to implement a clear road map for the required political reforms to guarantee a peaceful transition of power , '' MENA cited the source as saying . 
Assad , who inherited power from his late father 11 years ago , has championed Syria as the `` heart of Arabism '' and a self declared defender of the Palestinian cause while strengthening an unpopular alliance with Iran 's Shi'ite clerical rulers . 
A suspension from the League would have been a major diplomatic blow to Syria 's ruling elite , already struggling to cope with international isolation and Western sanctions since sending troops and tanks across the country to crush pro-democracy protests , killing and injuring thousands . 
Assad is also facing military defections that have increased in the last two months , as he intensified the military crackdown . 
Authorities have blamed the unrest on `` armed terrorist groups '' and say 1,100 troops and police have been killed . 
The authorities have denied in the past that army defections had occurred but Assad emphasised army unity in a letter to troops two months ago . 
Armoured vehicles fired machineguns and anti-aircraft guns as they entered Zabadani , in the foothills of the Anti Lebanon Mountains , 35 km -LRB- 22 miles -RRB- west of Damascus on Sunday . 
Local residents said army defectors fought loyalist troops for several hours the day before , and two vehicles belonging to the security police were seen riddled with bullets . 
Troops combed flat farmland near the town looking for defectors , ransacked homes , seized cars and arrested at least 100 people , including three female college students suspected of participating in pro-democracy protests , residents said . 
`` Soldiers accompanied by Military Intelligence have set up road blocks everywhere . 
Zabadani is now cut off from Damascus , '' said one resident who gave his name as Mohammad . 
Foreign media are largely barred from entering Syria and it was not possible to confirm the reports independently . 


Amateur video out of Syria shows a funeral service in Deir al-Zour . 
The video , which could not be independently verified by Reuters shows thousands of mourners on the streets chanting for freedom . 
The funeral comes as the Arab League meeting in Cairo is considering suspending Syria . 
More footage shows gunmen shooting at demonstrators . 
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has intensified a military crackdown to crush protests demanding his resignation . 
The United Nations says the crackdown has killed 3,000 people . 
Footage purpotedly out of Derra shows demonstrators out on the streets . 
A Libyan Revolutionary flag hangs from a building . 
Video out of Homs shows Syrian forces on the streets . 
For months Arab governments have been silent for months while Assad 's troops tried to put down the uprising . 
But the country is now in danger of descending into a civil war that could destabilize its neighbors . 
On Sunday , thousands of Syrian troops reportedly opened fire in a resort town on the border with Lebanon -- that came a day after heavy fighting in the area between army defectors and loyalist forces . 
Deborah Lutterbeck , Reuters Funerals and gunfire in Syria -LRB- 2:04 -RRB- Oct. 16 - Amateur video shows funeral procession in Syria broken up by gunmen . 
-LRB- Transcript -RRB- An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


AMMAN | Mon Oct 17 , 2011 7:02 pm EDT AMMAN -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - Syrian tank forces killed at least 25 people in a thrust into the opposition hotbed of Homs aimed at stemming growing armed resistance to President Bashar al-Assad 's crackdown on a seven-month-old popular uprising , residents said . 
It was one of the highest daily death tolls in the large central Syrian city that has seen some of the most extensive protests in a tide of unrest where protesters are demanding an end to 41 years of repressive Assad family rule . 
The clashes on Monday followed the deployment of loyalist militiamen in Sunni Muslim districts , fanning tension between the city 's Sunni majority and members of Assad 's minority Alawite sect , residents told Reuters by telephone . 
Mindful of the threat of civil war in Syria , which straddles major fault lines of Middle East conflict , the Arab League offered on Sunday to host talks in Cairo between the opposition , who have formed a National Council , and the Damascus leadership . 
But Syria 's representative to the League said Syria had major reservations about the offer , while the opposition Syrian National Council said it could not engage in talks while Assad 's military continued to storm restive cities and towns . 
In Homs , 140 km -LRB- 90 miles -RRB- north of Damascus , tanks firing heavy machineguns swept into Sunni districts of Bab Sbaa , Bab Dreib and Bab Amro where large protests demanding the removal of Assad have taken place regularly , residents and activists said . 
They said loyalist forces encountered rudimentary resistance , although army deserters were helping some inhabitants defend their neighborhoods and managed to hit several tanks with rocket-propelled grenades -LRB- RPGs -RRB- . 
`` Most residents of Bab Sbaa have fled . 
The troops are firing heavily from tanks and from the roadblocks in the area . 
The fire coming from the other direction is small and intermittent , '' a local resident said by phone . 
`` Roadblocks have cut off every neighborhood from another , and random firing by troops manning them is common , '' said another resident , who gave her name as Manal . 
Homs , the hometown of Assad 's wife Asma , lies amid fertile farmland on the main highway to Aleppo , Syria 's second city . 
Homs is close to the border with Lebanon , which has begun to serve as a supply line to insurgents in the city and its countryside , including army defectors who have increased in numbers since the crackdown intensified two months ago . 
Inspired by `` Arab Spring '' popular uprisings that have overthrown entrenched autocrats in Tunisia , Egypt and Libya , protests have spread across much of Syria calling for the Assad family 's ouster and more political freedoms . 
Syrian authorities blame the unrest on `` armed terrorist groups '' which they say have killed 1,100 army and police and are operating in Homs , killing civilians and prominent figures . 
SYRIA SAYS `` TERRORIST '' GROUP LEADER ARRESTED The official news agency said troops had arrested `` the head of one of the most leading terrorist groups '' in raids into the districts of Bab Sbaa and Mreijeh and confiscated weapons , including RPGs and gunpowder . 
Foreign reporters are largely banned from Syria , making independent confirmation of reported events difficult . 
The United Nations says Assad 's crackdown has killed 3,000 people across Syria since March including at least 187 children . 
The army defectors have been mostly Sunni Muslims , who comprise most of the army 's rank and file while the officer corps is composed mainly of members of the Alawite community under the command of Assad 's younger brother , Maher . 
The Alawites , who are an offshoot of Shi'ite Islam , expanded their hold on the Syrian state , the military and secret police -- a bloc now underpinning the power structure -- after Assad 's father , the late Hafez al-Assad , took office in a 1970 coup . 
In Cairo , Arab League foreign ministers urged Syria 's rulers and opposition to negotiate and decided to create a committee to work for a halt to the bloodshed . 
They stopped short of adopting a proposal to suspend Syria from the pan-Arab group . 
Youssef Ahmad , Syria 's representative to the Arab League , said its decision was `` not transparent '' and that Damascus could not accept taking part in any talks outside Syria . 
Arab states were silent for months while Assad 's troops tried to stamp out unrest with tanks and machineguns , but began to criticize Assad after the United States and European powers said he must go and slapped economic sanctions on Damascus . 
We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion , anecdotes , links and data . 
Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters . 
They killed liberal Muslims and Christians and they will - for sure - expand their business whenever they have the chance . 
i do n't want to say more just you type : Muslim Brotherhood '' on internet and you will get to know the truth . 
Lord Buddha once said '' three things can not be hidden for a long time : the Sun , the Moon and the Truth '' so , whatever extremists media tried to do , they will never hide the truth that those murderers are criminals and for this reason we Syrians ask our president and army to protect our lives . 
This discussion is now closed . 
We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication . 
An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


Leaders from the Arab League stopped short of voting Syria out of its charter over charges Syrian President Bashar al-Assad is using extreme violence to crackdown on protesters . 
Arab leaders have called for an end to the bloodshed between the anti-government demonstrators and troops loyal to al-Assad , but have not agreed on a means for achieving it . 
At a news conference after the meeting , a spokesperson for the league said throwing Syria out of the organization would close the lines of communication , and prove detrimental for both sides . 
-LRB- SOUNDBITE -RRB- -LRB- Arabic -RRB- ARAB LEAGUE SECRETARY GENERAL , NABIL EL-ARABY , SAYING : `` Every issue was studied . 
But please allow me to say that I have met with a large number of the Syrian opposition groups , of all kinds , and most of them said , with all clarity , that freezing -LRB- Syria 's -RRB- membership is not in their interests . 
Because freezing their membership means cutting off the relations between the Arab League and Syria . 
And this is not what is needed . 
What is needed is to place all of the weight of the Arab League Council of Ministers in order to reach a solution that guarantees an end to bloodshed , and which guarantees the realisation of the reforms that the Syrian people are demanding . '' 
Leaders did agree on forming a committee to open dialogue between the government and opposition leaders ... that meeting is set to take place in about two weeks . 
The failure to take stronger action against Syria is likely to intensify criticism that the League has been ineffectual in dealing the Syrian crisis . 
According to the United Nations , the Syrian government has killed at least 3,000 people in pro-democracy crackdowns , including several hundred children . 
Julie Noce , Reuters Syria remains in Arab League -LRB- 1:52 -RRB- Oct. 17 - Arab League leaders decide against suspending Syria from it 's charter . 
-LRB- Transcript -RRB- An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


BEIRUT | Tue Oct 18 , 2011 10:10 am EDT BEIRUT -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - Turkey 's foreign minister held his first acknowledged meeting with Syrian opposition leaders , urging them to use peaceful means despite what activists say was the biggest offensive yet in the city of Homs by forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad . 
Ahmed Davutoglu 's discussion with the opposition Syrian National Council Monday night , reported by an unnamed Turkish foreign ministry official , followed a threat by Syria to deal firmly with any country which formally recognizes the council . 
Turkey was an ally to Assad but ties soured when the Syrian president responded with force to the protests against his rule . 
`` The meeting is the first step toward Turkey recognizing the National Council , they are not very worried about the regime 's reaction because the relationship is already ruptured , '' said Lebanese analyst Hilal Khashan . 
The formation of the council has been welcomed by Western countries including the United States and France . 
However , unlike the transitional council set up by Libyan rebels who overthrew Muammar Gaddafi , Western governments have not offered the SNC any formal recognition , fearing a civil war that could destabilize the region . 
Davutoglu 's talks with the opposition also followed fresh signs that the seven-month uprising against Assad 's rule has become more militant . 
One opposition group reported the assassination Tuesday of an intelligence officer in the northern province of Idlib . 
Davutoglu told the council `` the Syrian opposition ... should employ peaceful and legitimate means to express their just demands and in a peaceful manner work to maintain the unity of the opposition and for a democratic transformation . '' 
Turkey has allowed opponents of Assad to meet in Turkish cities since anti-Assad protests started in March and has also given sanctuary to the most senior Syrian military to defect . 
Davutoglu 's talks followed one of the highest daily death tolls in Homs , the central Syrian city that has seen some of the most extensive protests against Assad . 
Residents said Syrian forces backed by tanks killed at least 25 people in a thrust into the opposition hotbed , 140 km -LRB- 90 miles -RRB- north of Damascus , aimed at stemming growing armed resistance to Assad 's crackdown on the seven-month-old uprising . 
Tanks firing machineguns swept into Sunni districts of Bab Sbaa , Bab Dreib and Bab Amro where large protests demanding the removal of Assad have taken place , residents and activists said . 
Army deserters and armed residents hit back with rocket-propelled grenades -LRB- RPGs -RRB- , hitting several tanks , they said . 
Homs is close to the border with Lebanon , which has begun to serve as a supply line to insurgents in the city and surrounding countryside , including army defectors who have increased in numbers since the crackdown intensified two months ago . 
Tuesday , troops sealed off districts in the city and searched the countryside for army defectors , residents said . 
`` Bab Sbaa , Bab Amro , al-Khalidya and al-Baiyada are totally sealed and machinegun fire keeps being directed at these neighborhoods . 
The only area where there are no troops or ` shabbiha ' is downtown , where only a few people are on the streets and there are virtually no cars , '' a resident of the city , who gave his name as Wael , told Reuters . 
`` Martyrs will be buried today , so we are expecting more deaths . 
A good number of the casualties yesterday occurred at funerals , '' another resident said . 
The United Nations says Assad 's crackdown has killed 3,000 people across Syria since March including at least 187 children . 
Syrian authorities blame the unrest on `` armed terrorist groups '' which they say have killed 1,100 army and police and are operating in Homs , killing civilians and prominent figures . 
The official news agency said troops had arrested `` the head of one of the leading terrorist groups '' in Homs and confiscated weapons , including RPGs and gunpowder . 
Foreign reporters are largely banned from Syria , making independent confirmation of reported events difficult . 
Mindful of the threat of civil war in Syria , which straddles major fault lines of Middle East conflict , the Arab League offered Sunday to host talks in Cairo between the opposition , who have formed a National Council , and the Damascus leadership . 
But Syria 's representative to the League said Syria had major reservations about the offer , while the Syrian National Council said it could not engage in talks while Assad 's military continued to storm restive cities and towns . 


DUBAI | Fri Oct 21 , 2011 7:47 am EDT DUBAI -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - For many Arabs , the humiliating capture and killing of Muammar Gaddafi , the longest-serving Arab leader , is a lesson to other tyrants in a region that has overthrown three long-serving rulers this year . 
But some said on Friday that Libya would have been better off if its former leader had been given a fair trial for abuses committed during his 42-year rule , which ended when rebels captured the capital Tripoli in August . 
`` The world now has one less dictator , '' said Ziad Khalil , a Beirut shopkeeper , a day after Gaddafi 's death . 
`` This is the end he deserves . '' 
In Cairo , Youssef Hammad , a 43-year-old business executive , said he was not surprised by Gaddafi 's gruesome demise . 
`` The way he was going to die , if caught , was sealed when he ignored his people 's calls for a more open and free society , '' Hammad said . 
`` Instead he vowed to hunt them down one by one , alleyway by alleyway , like rats . 
Ironically that 's how he met his maker . '' 
Gaddafi , a fugitive since August , was killed on Thursday after fighters for the National Transitional Council captured his last stronghold and hometown of Sirte . 
He tried to flee the city in a convoy , braving NATO airstrikes . 
His captors found him hiding in a drainage culvert , and cellphone video showed a bloodied Gaddafi being beaten . 
Libya 's Interim Prime Minister Mahmoud Jibril said that Gaddafi was hit during `` crossfire '' while being taken to hospital , but most Libyans , including officials , seemed to have little doubt that he was probably killed by his captors . 
The Egyptian cabinet said after a meeting on Thursday it was looking forward to helping the Libyan people rebuild their country . 
But most Arab governments have yet to comment on Gaddafi 's death . 
Gaddafi was the third Arab head of state to be ousted this year , after Tunisia 's Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali and Egypt 's Hosni Mubarak . 
But unlike Ben Ali and Mubarak , who were ousted by popular uprisings in January and February , Gaddafi was overthrown in a civil war that the new interim government says cost some 30,000 lives . 
Many Arabs said Gaddafi 's death was likely to scare Arab leaders still clinging to power in Syria and Yemen in the face of months of pro-democracy protests and crackdowns by security forces that have left thousands of people dead . 
In the Omani capital Muscat , banker Haji Ismail said Gaddafi 's death was a lesson to other Arab rulers . 
`` They will face such a fate if they keep oppressing their people . '' 
Cairo engineer Ibrahim Sabri said Arab leaders were afraid of meeting a similar fate . 
`` This was evident in the Syrian TV denial of Gaddafi 's news , they are afraid that they will share the same fate , '' he said . 
In Syria , where President Bashar al-Assad has faced seven months of popular protests opposing his rule , video footage of a demonstration on Thursday night in Homs province showed people chanting : `` Bashar , it is your turn next ! '' 
In the Syrian town of Houla , people carried placards saying : `` Syrian rebels congratulate the Libyan people for killing the rat Muammar Gaddafi , '' and `` Death is the fate of all oppressive rulers - first the rat Muammar Gaddafi , then the thug Bashar al-Assad . '' 
Some said the success of the Libyan uprising would have been more welcome had NATO forces not been involved . 
NATO deployed aircraft to protect Libyan civilians against Gaddafi forces in a U.N.-mandated operation . 
But the alliance took a visible role in the fighting that ousted Gaddafi . 
`` It would have been a triumph for all Arabs if Libyans themselves removed Gaddafi without NATO help , '' said Suleiman Al Sharji , an Omani political commentator . 
`` Now we have more questions on foreign interference as versus self-rule than ever before . '' 
Amr Moussa , a former Arab League Secretary General under whom the body asked for international intervention to help Libyan civilians , said he hoped that Libya will move forward quickly to achieve the goals of its people . 
`` I hope that Libya will transition after Gaddafi 's departure into a new phase toward the path of building a modern Libya and achieving stability and real democracy , '' the independent Egyptian daily al-Tahrir newspaper quoted Amr Moussa as saying . 
Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters . 
Not that this development is n't great news to ordinary Libyans -LRB- at least those not part of Gaddafi 's patronage system -RRB- , but the notion that the real lesson here is to treat your populations well is patently absurd . 
Just ask the King of Bahrain , the latest recipient of a boatload of US military aid so he can viciously slaughter his own people . 
For nuanced coverage of the Libyan campaign , not just war cheerleading under the guise of promoting human rights , check out Democracy Now ! 
's archive of reports . 
I 'd recommend American style television and media as an ideal way to spread mass ignorance . 
The Arab leaders could be afraid of NATO intervention and not of their people . 
The rebels in Libya alone could do nothing against the Mad Dog , and they could have been eliminated in a short of time , with out the NATO help . 
GADDAFI was about to erase the city of Benghazi and its people . 
Hopefully the NATO was there in the right time . 
We hope the NATO will do the same thing with the other tyrants and dictators every where in order to stop the phenomena of ruling the countries by tyranny . 
This discussion is now closed . 
We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication . 
An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


AMMAN | Wed Oct 26 , 2011 6:33 pm EDT AMMAN -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - At least 20 people died in clashes and strikes paralyzed parts of Syria on Wednesday as President Bashar al-Assad held an inconclusive meeting with Arab ministers seeking to end months of violence . 
Nine soldiers were killed by armed rebels and 11 civilians were killed by army gunfire , residents and anti-Assad activists said , as little emerged from a closely watched meeting between Assad and members of an Arab League committee on Syria . 
The delegation leader , Qatari Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim al-Thani , said the talks had been `` cordial and frank '' and that the ministers would meet Syrian officials again on October 30 in either Doha or Damascus . 
Down the hill from where the envoys met Assad at the `` Palace of the People , '' the authorities organized a rally to show support for the president , who inherited power from his late father 11 years ago . 
But with armored assaults on cities and towns failing to end seven months of protests against 41 years of Assad family rule , international pressure on the president continued to grow . 
The United Nations says his crackdown has killed 3,000 people , although Syria says hundreds of security personnel have been killed by armed groups trying to foment sectarian conflict . 
Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu , who met Qatar 's Emir Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani on Wednesday , said his country was consulting with Arab League members to push Syria to `` pull troops from cities and end its cruel treatment of its people . '' 
`` There are measures that have been taken and activated in this regard so that the Syrian government ends its aggression against its people , but these do not include any sanctions that could hurt the Syrian people , '' Davutoglu said after talks in Amman with King Abdullah and senior Jordanian officials . 
Turkish officials who spoke on condition of anonymity say the sanctions , which were announced last month without details , will affect military , banking and energy ties , among others . 
The United States and the European Union have already imposed sanctions on Syria 's small , but key , oil sector , which is linked to the Assad family and their friends . 
In the million-strong city of Homs , a hotbed of opposition to Assad , residents and activists said a general strike kept most workers at home and shops shut . 
One resident said armed opponents of Assad had enforced the strike . 
Firing by soldiers , which killed 11 people across Syria on Wednesday , also kept people indoors . 
In the town of Hamrat , north of Homs , suspected army deserters killed nine soldiers in an attack on a bus with a rocket-propelled grenade , the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said . 
It was the latest incident in an armed insurgency emerging alongside the campaign of street protests . 
`` This will end with the fall of the regime . 
It is nearly unavoidable , '' French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said . 
`` But unfortunately it could take time because the situation is complex , because there is a risk of civil war between Syrian factions , because surrounding Arab countries do not want us to intervene , '' he told French radio . 
In Umayyad Square in central Damascus , tens of thousands of people gathered for what has become a weekly show of support for Assad organized by authorities . 
State television showed them waving Syrian flags and portraits of the president , saying they were rallying under the slogan `` Long live the homeland and its leader . '' 
The rally took place before the envoys from six Arab nations arrived in Damascus for talks with Assad following a call on October 16 for the opposition and government to hold a dialogue within 15 days at the League headquarters in Cairo . 
`` What is hoped is that the violence will end , a dialogue will start and reforms will be achieved , '' Arab League Secretary General Nabil Elaraby said . 
The delegation was led by Qatar and included Egypt , Algeria , Oman , Sudan and Yemen . 
Assad 's government says it is serious about political reform , and that militants are trying to wreck it . 
The opposition says Assad has no intention of relaxing his grip on power , pointing to an increase in killings , torture , arrests and assassinations . 
Human Rights Watch said the Arab mission should demand that Syria allow in independent civilian monitors . 
`` The only way to make sure civilians are protected is to have on-the-ground monitors whose presence would inhibit abuse by the security services , '' HRW Middle East director Sarah Leah Whitson said . 
Assad is from the minority Alawite sect in a mostly Sunni Muslim country . 
Sensitive to the reverberations if he were to fall , leaders of mostly Sunni nations across the Middle East have been cautious about criticizing him or taking action , as many struggle to deal with their own unrest . 
In Homs , residents said public employees took part in the strike for the first time , and only a few food shops were open . 
Video posted on the Internet showed shuttered shops on both sides of a main street in the nearby region of Houla . 
In Deraa the impact was reportedly even greater . 
`` There is total closure . 
The streets of Deraa are empty , even the few butcher 's shops and pharmacies that were open are now closed , '' said Jasem Masalmeh , a resident of the provincial capital . 
Syria has excluded most foreign media , making it difficult to verify accounts from activists and authorities . 


Anti-government rallies were held across Syria after Friday 's prayers The Arab League has sent an `` urgent message '' to the Syrian government , denouncing `` the continued killings of civilians '' taking part in protests . 
The league 's ministerial committee on the Syrian crisis also urged Damascus to `` take the necessary measures '' to protect civilians . 
The call came as at least 37 protesters were killed in Syria , activists said . 
The deaths took place mostly in Homs and Hama as protesters called for a no-fly-zone to be imposed , activists said . 
More than 3,000 people have died in the unrest since protests broke out in March . 
The government of President Bashar al-Assad says the unrest is being stoked by armed gangs and foreign extremists looking to stir up sectarian strife . 
Foreign journalists have been largely prevented from reporting from the country , making it difficult to confirm events on the ground . 
On Saturday there were reports of Syrian tanks and heavy machineguns pounding areas of Homs . 
The UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights also said at least 17 soldiers had been killed late on Friday in attacks by army deserters . 
The Arab League 's committee on Syria issued its statement on Friday . 
It said that the committee would meet Syrian officials on Sunday in Qatar to try to reach `` serious results '' on a way to end the crisis . 
The ministers also said that they had held `` frank and friendly '' talks with President Assad on Wednesday . 
The BBC 's Jon Leyne , in Cairo , says the league is trying to bring the government and opposition together for a national dialogue but there is a deadline of Monday for the initiative to succeed . 
After that the Arab League might consider expelling Syria - something that would dramatically increase pressure on President Assad , our correspondent adds . 
On Friday , protesters in Syria called for international protection from Nato whose war planes played a vital role in the overthrow of former Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi . 
`` God , Syria , we want a no-fly zone over it , '' protesters shouted in the Bab Tadmur neighborhood of Homs , while others carried banners demanding international protection , Reuters reports . 
In the restive Balaa neighborhood , around 20,000 people marched calling for the fall of President Assad 's regime , AFP news agency reported , quoting activists . 
An armed insurgency has emerged over the past few weeks around the city , home to one million people and some 140km -LRB- 85 miles -RRB- north of Damascus , the news agency reports . 
Dozens of young protesters marched in Damascus 's Barzeh neighborhood , the observatory said , adding that 40 were arrested . 
Internet and communications services were reportedly disrupted in parts of the capital , as well as in Homs . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


GENEVA | Wed Nov 2 , 2011 5:48 pm EDT GENEVA -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - The Red Cross is pressing Syrian authorities for wider access to thousands of detainees arrested in pro-democracy protests , while insisting that its own strict terms be met , its president said Wednesday . 
In an interview with Reuters , Jakob Kellenberger , president of the International Committee of the Red Cross -LRB- ICRC -RRB- , said that the independent humanitarian agency would assess its role after an upcoming visit to a detention center in Aleppo . 
Syria opened its prisons for the first time in September , allowing ICRC officials to visit Damascus central prison which has 6,000 inmates , but that is the only facility the Red Cross has seen . 
Activists say 30,000 people have been arrested in the seven-month uprising against President Bashar al-Assad 's rule . 
`` I have always made clear , also when I was -LRB- there -RRB- again in September with President Assad that yes , that this is the test phase , a first phase , but after that we want to go further , '' Kellenberger said in an interview in his Geneva office . 
`` I would like to see now how the next visit will go , that would be Aleppo , in order to see a little bit if we have understood each other well , '' he added . 
He declined to reveal specifics , but said that there were unresolved issues with Syrian authorities over the terms of ICRC visits . 
The agreed initial phase of visits was limited to Damascus and Aleppo , he said . 
`` We will certainly have a thorough examination internally after this first phase on the merits of our visits , '' Kellenberger said . 
`` I have to say that the first visit has shown still that we need to talk to each other in much more detail '' about the terms of the visits , he said . 
`` Nobody has such -LRB- high -RRB- standards as we have , '' he said . 
Under its standard terms worldwide , the ICRC demands full access to all detention centers , the right to interview prisoners of its choosing in private and to make follow-up visits . 
Syria has agreed to withdraw its military presence from cities and residential areas and to releasing prisoners as part of an Arab initiative to end violence , the Arab League said in a statement Wednesday . 
It was not immediately clear how many prisoners might be affected by the move or the timetable of the release . 
The United Nations says 3,000 people have been killed in what it calls `` ruthless repression '' of anti-government protesters that could drive the country into full-blown civil war . 
Syrian army deserters killed seven soldiers and eight members of the security forces and gunmen loyal to President Assad in an apparent response to the killing of 11 villagers earlier Wednesday , an activist group said . 
Activists say people have been rounded up and are being held in makeshift detention centers including schools . 
`` We have big concerns . 
But I meant the fact is we are the only ones who are in a position , who are accepted to do this work , '' Kellenberger said . 
`` The big challenge is to try to see these people . '' 
`` I am aware that there will be places where it would be even more urgent that we can go than the places where we go now , '' he added . 
Kellenberger also said that those wounded in the violence do not appear to have full access to medical treatment , as required under international humanitarian law . 
The ICRC has previously said it had reports of doctors , ambulance workers and other health-care workers being prevented from performing their life-saving tasks of evacuating the wounded and providing first aid and medical care . 
`` One of the main reasons I went in September to see President Assad was to make clear that every person is entitled to access to medical care . 
It was a major concern , in fact it was one of the elements triggering the visit , '' Kellenberger said . 
`` We have even talked about certain measures that have to be taken to make this access easier . 
`` But from the news I have , I do not have the impression that the problem is solved , unfortunately ... Everything indicates it remains a big problem , '' he said . 
-LRB- Reporting by Stephanie Nebehay ; Editing by Peter Graff -RRB- An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


The Syrian government has promised to withdraw troops from the streets Security forces in Syria have killed at least 19 protesters during demonstrations against the government , rights groups say . 
The latest deaths , which come at the start of the Muslim festival of Eid al-Adha , come a day after 27 people were killed in violence in Homs . 
The Arab League is to meet again next weekend to discuss the crisis . 
Earlier , it said a failure by the Syrian government to bring an end to the bloodshed would be catastrophic . 
On Sunday , 16 civilians were killed by security forces while protesting in the city of Homs , 140 km -LRB- 90 miles -RRB- north of the capital , Damascus , said the London-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights . 
Majd Amer , a local Homs activist quoted by the Associated Press news agency , said people performed morning prayers to the sound of explosions that sometimes shook the mosques . 
`` It 's been like this for days now , '' he said of the military assault on the city . 
Most of the deaths occurred in the Baba Amr neighborhood of Homs , where clashes have raged for days , the Observatory for Human Rights said . 
Jonathan Head BBC News , Istanbul The pictures and reports we are getting from activists inside Syria suggest nothing has changed in the five days since the government said it would comply with an Arab League peace proposal . 
Even now , during one of the biggest Muslim holidays of the year , the reports say protesters are being attacked by military units , and that the killing has continued . 
And the language used by President Assad has n't changed either - in one of his only comments since Wednesday he said his forces were taking a stand against terrorism and outside interference , and that they had to win the battle they were fighting . 
That leaves the Arab League with few options , apart from sanctioning Syria , either by suspending or expelling it . 
The city has become a focus of anti-Assad unrest in recent months - more than 100 people have been killed there in the past week . 
Security forces also shot dead two civilians in the city of Hama , which lies further to the north , and another in Idlib province , near the border with Turkey , the observatory said . 
The group also said troops had opened fire on a protest in Talbi , near Homs , and that dozens had been injured in the Idlib town of Kafruma . 
The authorities say security forces are fighting militant gangs who have been killing civilians in Homs . 
On Wednesday the Arab League announced a plan for Syria calling for an end to violence , the withdrawal of the army from urban areas , and talks between the regime and opposition . 
The government of President Bashar al-Assad has said it will pull its forces off the streets and begin dialogue with the opposition , but despite this , the violence has continued . 
On Saturday Arab League Secretary General Nabil al-Arabi called on the government to implement the plan , saying a failure to do so would have `` catastrophic consequences for the situation in Syria and the region '' . 
Following Sunday 's killings , the League announced it would hold an emergency meeting on 12 November to discuss `` the continuation of violence and because the Syrian government did not implement its commitments in the Arab plan '' . 
The protests have continued despite the government crackdown French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said the latest deaths had made it clear there was `` nothing more to expect from this regime and that despite its occasional announcements it will not commit to a program of reforms '' . 
He said there had been a `` failure '' at the UN Security Council to take action against Syria , after a motion to introduce measures against Syria , including possible sanctions , was vetoed last month . 
The United Nations estimates that at least 3,000 people have been killed since the uprising began in March . 
The government says Islamist militants and foreign-backed armed gangs have killed 1,100 members of the security forces . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Analysis : Syrian attack on rebel city mocks Arab peace plan LONDON | Tue Nov 8 , 2011 8:30 am EST LONDON -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - Syria 's assault on the recalcitrant city of Homs has shredded an Arab peace plan and exposed the failure of world outrage to force President Bashar al-Assad to halt a violent crackdown on an eight-month popular uprising . 
Tanks and snipers have battled to cow protesters and hunt army defectors in Homs , killing more than 100 , activists say , since the Arab League said on November 2 that Damascus had accepted a plan to pull the army out of cities and talk to its foes . 
`` The Arab peace plan died on arrival , '' said Murhaf Jouejati , a Syrian-born scholar in Washington . 
`` There has been no let-up in the violence . 
The Assad regime is in complete defiance mode . '' 
Arab foreign ministers will review the plan on Saturday , but Syrian opponents of Assad show no surprise at its fate . 
`` I do n't think anyone in his right mind was expecting Assad to pull his troops out of the streets and allow peaceful protests , '' Walid al-Bunni , a lawyer and often-jailed dissident who left Syria for Paris two weeks ago , told Reuters . 
`` Lack of even a threat of international intervention is viewed by the authorities as a license to kill , '' he said . 
Evident Arab impotence to deflect Assad from the path he has chosen for survival against what he calls Islamist militants and foreign-backed gangs throws the ball back to Western powers whose own rebukes the Syrian leader has ignored or denounced . 
Assad has played on fears that without him Syria could slide into civil war , Islamic militancy or Iraq-style sectarian carnage , causing what he has called a regional `` earthquake . '' 
Nadim Shehadi , of London 's Chatham House think-tank , said Assad had already lost power , in the sense of legitimacy , but argued that the outside world had effectively propped him up with unheeded calls for reform and dialogue . 
`` The people who are protesting in Syria seem to have crossed the barrier of fear , but the international community has n't . '' 
Many Syrians have defied a feared security apparatus to keep up demands for change , despite bloodshed which the United Nations says has cost more than 3,500 lives -- as well as those of 1,100 soldiers and police , according to the government . 
Armed with a U.N. Security Council mandate to protect civilians , Western powers lent air support to Libyan rebels who toppled Muammar Gaddafi , but have disavowed any intent to repeat the feat in Syria , in a far trickier area of the Middle East . 
Russia and China , stung by the robust Western reading of the U.N. resolution on Libya , oppose even U.N. criticism of Syria , whose uprising was inspired by others in the Arab world . 
The Arab League , which had suspended Libya 's membership and backed a no-fly zone there , has treated Syria more leniently . 
Assad 's own doom-laden warnings have reinforced the fears of Syria 's neighbors -- Israel , Lebanon , Iraq , Jordan and Turkey -- about the possibly seismic consequences of a power shift in a nation on the faultlines of several Middle Eastern conflicts . 
Instability in Syria , Iran 's only Arab ally , could spread to Lebanon or Iraq , which have volatile sectarian divides . 
Israel , long used to a calm border with Syria , frets that Assad 's fall could herald less predictable rulers . 
Syrian refugees have already spilled into Lebanon and Turkey , which is also wary of any revived Syrian support for rebel Kurds in its southeast . 
Assad still retains substantial support from his own Alawite minority , part of the business elite in Damascus and Aleppo , Christians and others who fear that Islamist radicals might come to the fore , and , crucially , army and security force commanders . 
`` Until now there are segments of the Syrian population on the sidelines , afraid for their lives if they go out in the streets , or betting that Assad will survive , '' said a leading dissident in Syria , who asked not to be named . 
He said the Arab League had embarrassed Assad with a plan he could not implement without inviting huge street protests . 
It could now suspend Syria and refer it to the United Nations , putting pressure on Russia and China to alter their stance . 
An Arab League source said a ministerial committee might return to Damascus with a reprimand and perhaps a new deadline for compliance , or dispatch Arab observers to identify violators of the deal . 
Sterner action , such as suspending Syria from the League or blaming it for the violence , was unlikely immediately . 
Waheed Abdel Maguid , at Cairo 's al-Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies , said the League was hamstrung by its own rifts , with Algeria , Lebanon and Yemen hostile to penalizing Syria , and Iraq , Sudan and Mauritania hesitant . 
`` This puts the League in an awkward situation , '' he said . 
`` It holds meetings but is unable to act . '' 
The big powers seem just as indecisive and divided , although seemingly agreed on ruling out military intervention . 
`` In these conditions , it is not unlikely that Turkey will take some kind of action , with implicit support from Washington and major European capitals , '' Jouejati said . 
But Turkey , now a bitter critic of its former friend , has yet to impose sanctions promised weeks ago , or to send clear signals on the idea of a safe haven or no-fly zone in Syria . 
`` We hope there will be no need for these type of measures , but of course humanitarian issues are important , '' Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu told the Financial Times this month . 
Western countries , preoccupied with global economic woes , have sharpened their rhetoric , but otherwise seem at a loss . 
`` Those leaders trying to hold back the future at the point of a gun should know their days are numbered , '' U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said on Monday , referring to Syria , while acknowledging the difficulty of any Libya-style `` liberation . '' 
The same day , French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said Syria 's behavior after the Arab peace plan was `` absolutely unacceptable '' and that it `` could no longer be trusted . '' 
But , like his British counterpart William Hague who deplored Syria 's policy , he offered no blueprint for action . 
The West has urged Assad 's foes to form a united , coherent front , but Chatham House 's Shehadi said this was absurd , given the diversity of opinion lurking beneath years of repression . 
`` This is not really an opposition , this is the whole of Syrian society , '' he said . 
Without decisive outside moves or the growth of a more powerful insurgency at home , Assad could survive for years , said Joshua Landis , a Syria expert at the University of Oklahoma . 
`` Today , the opposition remains weak and the Syrian military has the upper hand . 
That could change if the opposition begins to construct a real insurgency , if Turkey goes to war against Syria by supporting some sort of insurgency , or if a foreign intervention is launched , such as happened in Libya , '' he said . 
`` None of these possibilities is on the horizon , '' Landis added , arguing that small guerrilla groups might begin to proliferate and harass the Syrian military and state . 
`` If they gain traction , foreign funding and arms , they could transform into a real insurgency over time . '' 
An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


UNITED NATIONS | Wed Nov 9 , 2011 12:47 pm EST UNITED NATIONS -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - An increasing number of Syrian soldiers are defecting to the opposition , raising the risk of a Libyan-style civil war in Syria , U.N. human rights chief Navi Pillay said on Wednesday . 
`` Where basic human rights are trampled and peaceful demands for change met by brutal violence , people are eventually compelled to have recourse to rebellion against tyranny and oppression , '' Pillay told the U.N. Security Council . 
`` It happened in Libya , it may happen in Syria , '' she said during a debate on protecting civilians in armed conflict . 
`` More and more soldiers refuse to become complicit in international crimes and are changing sides . 
There is a serious risk of Syria descending into armed struggle . '' 
Illustrating Pillay 's point Syrian activists said that an armored government force stormed an area northwest of the city of Hama on Wednesday in pursuit of army defectors challenging President Bashar al-Assad 's rule . 
Pillay reiterated U.N. estimates that `` well over 3,500 '' people have been killed in Syria since anti-government demonstrations began in March . 
`` Tens of thousands of people , including doctors , nurses and wounded patients , have been arbitrarily arrested and many remain detained incommunicado , placing them at serious risk of torture , '' she said . 
Syria agreed to an Arab League plan on November 2 , pledging to pull its military from restive cities , set political prisoners free and start talks with the opposition , which wants to remove Assad and introduce more democratic freedoms . 
Pillay told the 15-nation Security Council she was `` concerned that the killing of civilians has not stopped . '' 
She urged Damascus to allow a human rights monitoring mission to help ensure that Syria complies with the Arab League agreement . 
Last month Russia and China joined forces to veto a European-drafted Security Council resolution that would have condemned the Syrian government 's crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators and threatened possible sanctions . 
U.S. and European diplomats have repeatedly said that they are ready to submit a new draft resolution along similar lines as soon as Russia and China change their positions . 
But so far Moscow and Beijing remain adamantly opposed to the idea , Western diplomats say . 
We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion , anecdotes , links and data . 
Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters . 
maybe they have no hidden agenda in the matter like you do . . 
maybe what they really want to see is a peaceful resolution to the crisis in Syria instead of Libya style destruction . 
This discussion is now closed . 
We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication . 
An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


Syria : HRW urges suspension by Arab League Doctor in Homs : `` It 's a horror story ... we are really in crisis ... heroes are treating patients on the street '' Human Rights Watch has called on the Arab League to suspend Syria , saying the abuses against civilians in Homs are crimes against humanity . 
The US-based group has issued a report documenting allegations of torture and unlawful killings in the city of Homs . 
The city has been a focus for anti-government demonstrations . 
Dozens were reported killed there on Thursday . 
The UN says at least 3,500 people have been killed in Syria in protests against President Bashar al-Assad . 
They were beating me , and pouring water on me , and then using electric stun guns '' The government blames the unrest on armed gangs and militants and say hundreds of soldiers and police have been killed . 
But Sarah Leah Whitson , Middle East director at Human Rights Watch said the city of Homs represented : `` A microcosm of the Syrian government 's brutality '' . 
She said that the Arab League , who are due to meet to discuss the crisis in Syria , must apply pressure after the country failed to honor the League 's plan to end the unrest . 
`` The Arab League needs to tell President Assad that violating their agreement has consequences , and that it now supports Security Council action to end the carnage . '' 
Syrian authorities had agreed in early November to withdraw from restive cities , set political prisoners free and start talks with the opposition . 
But , since then , the UN says that the killing has continued . 
On Thursday , nearly 40 people were killed across the country , including five soldiers and an eight-year-old girl , Syrian activists said . 
The eight-month-old uprising has become increasingly armed , with Syrian soldiers joining the anti-government protesters in some areas , including Homs . 
The city has seen repeated clashes between army defectors and security forces , who have been mounting raids in pursuit of protesters . 
Human Rights Watch said it had conducted more than 110 interviews with witnesses and victims of the violence in Homs , both the city and the surrounding province of the same name . 
In a report , entitled We Live As In War , HRW documents what it says are `` dozens of incidents in which security forces and government-supported militias violently attacked and dispersed overwhelmingly peaceful protests '' . 
The HRW witnesses describe security forces firing machine guns or heavier weapons into districts of cities where protests have been taking place , to frighten the residents . 
The BBC 's Jonathan Head , in neighbouring Turkey , says the report backs up accusations against the Syrian authorities by activists . 
Syrian forces have sought for months to quell anti-government protests However , the allegations can not be independently verified because the Syrian government has banned most foreign journalists from entering the country . 
Checkpoints around the district are set up to control movement and troops in armored vehicles move in to conduct raids . 
One resident of Homs told HRW that when he and others tried to bring food into Bab Sba ' district , security forces opened fire , killing one person and wounding another in his group . 
One woman protesting in Homs on 15 August with her family told HRW : `` It was calm , so everything seemed OK . 
`` Then two cars showed up suddenly and opened fire , targeting people even as they were ducking and lying on the ground . 
They were white Kia Cerato cars with tinted windows , like those used by air force intelligence , '' she said . 
Access to Arab and international media Government-opposition dialogue within two weeks Her son was shot in the stomach . 
`` The doctors were able to remove the bullet , but it left a lot of damage , '' she said . 
Thousands of people have been arrested since the anti-government protests began in March . 
While most are eventually released , HRW says several hundred are missing . 
Former detainees interviewed by HRW described being tortured with heated metal rods , electric shocks , beatings and being forced into `` stress positions '' for long periods . 
`` They beat -LRB- me -RRB- with cables and then hanged me by my hands from a pipe under the ceiling so that my feet were n't touching the floor , '' one former detainee said . 
`` They were beating me , and pouring water on me , and then using electric stun guns , '' he added . 
HRW said it had independently confirm 17 deaths in custody . 
Twelve of these people `` bore unmistakable marks consistent with torture , including bruises , cuts and burns '' . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites 


By Jon Leyne BBC News , Cairo Mass rallies in Syria demand the Arab League suspend Syria 's membership . 
The effects of the demonstrations there , that unseated President Mubarak earlier this year , are still reverberating round the organization 's headquarters . 
For many years the Arab League was mocked , as the epitome of all that was wrong in the old Arab world . 
It was seen as a body given to making grand statements , which only thinly veiled its powerlessness and its deep divisions . 
But earlier this year , the surprise decision of the league to endorse a no-fly zone over Libya dramatically changed that assessment . 
The move was crucial in building up pressure for a UN resolution , which in turn led to the Nato military intervention in Libya . 
Nervous of their restive populations , Arab governments had made a collective decision that , for once , changed history . 
Now they face an even tougher dilemma over the situation in Syria . 
It took months of violence inside Syria , before the Arab League spoke out . 
Since then , the organization has been increasingly outspoken . 
Just under two weeks ago it negotiated a peace plan with Syria , which , if implemented , would have made a huge difference to the situation there . 
Syria pledged to end violence against protesters , pull back its tanks , release political prisoners , and move quickly to open a political dialogue with the opposition . 
Despite Syria agreeing to the peace plan , protesters continue to be killed . 
But while Syria claims to be putting the plan into action , there 's little obvious sign of it on the ground . 
So the Arab League once again faces the danger of being written off as irrelevant and powerless . 
Once again there are huge divisions , between those Arab governments who represent the old order , and the countries which may now be moving to democracy . 
But even the most conservative governments have realized that the situation in Syria has become dangerous to their own survival . 
The dilemma for the members of the Arab League is how to wield their limited power . 
Many Syrian opposition supporters want it to expel Syria . 
It would be a bitter blow to a country proud of its support for pan-Arabism , and it could increase pressure for tough UN action , though no-one is expecting a Libyan-style military intervention . 
But the move would also mark the end of the Arab League 's role in the crisis . 
Once Syria was out of the League , that would be it . 
So it seems that for the moment , the members of the League are reluctant to go that far . 
Suspicious as they are of Syria 's intentions , they are still working with its government , and with opposition groups , to try to encourage political dialogue . 
No-one in the League has any illusions about the chances of success , and the suspension of Syria from membership may eventually become inevitable . 
But it is clear that the Arab countries that make up the League want to exhaust every option before they take that radical step . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites 


BEIRUT -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - Syria 's representative to the Arab League said Saturday 's decision to suspend Damascus violated the organization 's charter and showed it was `` serving a Western and American agenda . '' 
Youssef Ahmed told Syrian state television that the move to suspend Syria , which was opposed by two delegates at the Arab League ministerial meeting in Cairo , could only be taken by consensus at a summit meeting of Arab leaders . 
-LRB- Reporting by Dominic Evans ; Editing by Peter Graff -RRB- An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


Crowds gather outside the Arab League of Nations headquarters in downtown Cairo . 
They are protesting Syria 's ongoing crackdown on anti-government demonstrators . 
On Saturday , the Arab League announced it was suspending the country 's membership . 
SOUNDBITE -RRB- -LRB- Arabic -RRB- QATARI FOREIGN MINISTER AND DEPUTY PRIME MINISTER , HAMAD BIN JASIM AL THANI SAYING : `` In view of the Syrian government 's failure to carry out -- in its entirety and immediately -- the Arab League 's initiative , that was signed at Foreign Ministerial level meeting on November 2 , 2011 , the Syrian delegation is suspended from meetings of the Arab League and all associated agencies , as of November 16th . '' 
The League also demanded Syria stop targeting dissidents with violent reprisals . 
And , it further said it would impose economic and political sanctions , appealing to its members to remove ambassadors from Damascus . 
Syrian 's months-long uprising has been a bloody affair , with thousands dying in clashes with security forces . 
The Arab League came under fire for doing little to curb the violence . 
Jessica Gray , Reuters Nov. 12 - The Arab League of Nations suspends Syria 's membership and threatens political and economic sanctions after Damascus fails to halt violence against dissidents . 
-LRB- Transcript -RRB- An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


CAIRO | Sat Nov 12 , 2011 6:48 pm EST CAIRO -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - The Arab League suspended Syria and called on its army to stop killing civilians in a surprise move on Saturday that some Western leaders said should prompt tougher international action against President Bashar al-Assad . 
Hours after the League 's decision , hundreds of Assad supporters armed with sticks and knives attacked the Saudi Arabian embassy in Damascus and Turkish and French consulates in the city of Latakia , residents said . 
U.S. President Barack Obama praised the League 's move and France said it was time for international bodies to take more action against Syria 's government . 
The Arab League will impose economic and political sanctions on Damascus and has appealed to member states to withdraw their ambassadors , said Qatar 's Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim al-Thani . 
It will also call a meeting of Syrian opposition parties , he said . 
`` We were criticised for taking a long time but this was out of our concern for Syria , '' Sheikh Hamad told reporters at the League 's headquarters in Cairo . 
`` We needed to have a majority to approve those decisions . '' 
Syria 's representative at the Arab League said the decision was `` not worth the ink it was written with . '' 
The League 's announcement was a sharp rebuke for Syria 's leadership which sees itself as a champion of Arab nationalism . 
Hopes among Western powers that Assad would be isolated by his Arab neighbors were repeatedly dashed until now . 
Some Arab leaders have been reluctant to turn against one of their peers given their own restive populations , Middle East diplomats say . 
But Assad has pressed ahead with the crackdown on protesters against his rule despite an Arab peace plan brokered on November 2 . 
The United Nations says more than 3,500 people have been killed in seven months of violence . 
Syria blames armed groups for the violence and says 1,200 members of the security forces have been killed . 
Assad , from the minority Alawite community which has held power for four decades in mainly Muslim Syria , has said he has used legitimate means to confront a foreign conspiracy to sow sectarian strife . 
Activists said six people were killed in Syria on Saturday . 
Sheikh Hamad said the suspension of Syria from the regional body would take effect on November 16 , but did not detail the sanctions . 
`` We ask the Arab Syrian Army to not be involved in the violent actions and killing of civilians , '' Sheikh Hamad said , quoting from an Arab League statement . 
Syria 's Arab League representative , Youssef Ahmed , said suspending Damascus violated the League 's charter because it could only be done by consensus at a summit of Arab leaders . 
It was clear that `` orders were issued to them from the United States and Europe to hasten a decision against Syria , '' Ahmed told Syrian state TV . 
As news of the suspension spread in Syria , hundreds of men shouting pro-Assad slogans broke into the Saudi embassy in the Syrian capital , residents told Reuters . 
Angry crowds also attacked the French and Turkish consulates in Latakia , 330 km -LRB- 210 miles -RRB- north of Damascus on the Mediterranean coast , locals said . 
The Saudi Foreign Ministry said in a statement demonstrators `` gathered outside the embassy , threw stones at it , then stormed the building . '' 
It said Syrian security forces did not react fast enough and held the Syrian government responsible for protecting Saudi interests . 
A French Foreign Ministry spokesman said he was unaware of any attacks on French interests in Syria . 
There was no immediate confirmation from Ankara . 
A senior diplomat in Damascus confirmed the attacks . 
`` We do not have the full picture from Latakia , but the attacks there appear to have been really bad . '' 
Syrian TV reported a demonstration outside the Qatar embassy in Damascus . 
Assad 's opponents hailed the League 's new resolve . 
`` This gives a lot of strength to the position of the Syrian National Council . 
This is now an Arab position , '' said Basma Qadmani , a member of the executive committee of the Syrian National Council , the most prominent opposition group . 
Qadmani said that now that the Arab League had taken its decision `` we believe there is no justification for international reluctance '' to take tougher steps against Assad 's government . 
Obama praised the Arab League and said he would continue to pile pressure on the Syrian leadership . 
`` These significant steps expose the increasing diplomatic isolation of a regime that has systematically violated human rights and repressed peaceful protests , '' he said in a statement . 
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton repeated her call for Assad to step down . 
`` International pressure will continue to build until the brutal Assad regime heeds the calls of its own people and the world community , '' she said in a statement . 
German Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle said the decision sent an important signal to those in the U.N. Security Council who had up to now prevented a clear resolution on Syria . 
`` We will urge this to be seen as a chance for a change of heart , '' he said . 
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said it was time for international bodies to take more action . 
`` France appeals to the international community to hear the message sent by the Arab states , to take its responsibilities and to thus act without further delay , '' he said in a statement . 
Freezing Syria out of the 22-member League of Arab States carries extra symbolism in the wake of events in Libya , where Muammar Gaddafi was ousted and killed in a rebellion that benefited from NATO air support . 
The NATO mission got U.N. Security Council approval after Libya was suspended by the Arab League . 
`` This step introduces a possibility of foreign intervention and opens the door for engaging the international community in the case , '' said Nabil Abdel Fattah , a political analyst at the Al-Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies in Cairo . 
Sheikh Hamad held out the possibility that the League may ask the United Nations to help protect the rights of Syrians . 
`` If the violence and killing does n't stop , the Secretary General will call on international organizations dealing with human rights , including the United Nations , '' he said . 
Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters . 
So I checked and the headline should have used `` laid '' instead . 
`` Laid '' is the past tense of `` lay '' and `` lain '' is the past tense of `` lie . '' 
Lie , Lay ... they are confusing . 
He is a butcher who appears to be nothing more than another self-destructive dictator . 
Syria 's representative to the Arab League said suspending Damascus violated the organization 's charter and showed it was `` serving a Western and American agenda . '' 
If a Western and American agenda is to stop another dictator from murdering its own people then yes I support such an agenda . 
A civil government such as those in the West and America would never murder its own citizens . 
Italy proves it !! SLAP This discussion is now closed . 
We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication . 
An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


Like most Arab leaders , Jordan 's King Abdullah is still grappling with how best to respond to the growing crisis in Syria . 
But he is now the first Arab leader to openly say President Bashar al-Assad should step down and `` make sure whoever comes behind ... has the ability to change the status quo '' . 
His candid remarks , coupled with the Arab League 's bold suspension of Syria , are a turning point in the region 's approach to Damascus . 
Speaking in a BBC interview during a visit to London , Jordan 's monarch said if the Syrian leader acted in `` the interests of his country , he would step down but he would also create an ability to reach out and start a new phase of Syrian political life '' . 
King Abdullah still described Mr Assad as a leader who `` has reform in his blood . '' 
His greatest criticism was directed at what he called `` the system '' that did not allow for reform . 
`` I think we would delude ourselves , '' he emphasised , `` in thinking that the system would change dramatically if the individual was gone . '' 
His surprising candor comes after what he detailed as months of efforts by himself , and other leaders , to engage with an increasingly isolated Syrian president who still insists he is committed to reform . 
Thousands of Syrians have fled across the border into northern Lebanon to escape the crackdown The UN says Syria 's eight-month long uprising has cost 3,500 lives , mainly protestors but also members of Syria 's security forces involved in the violent crackdown . 
There is been no official response from Damascus yet to the king 's intervention . 
A spokesperson for the Syrian embassy in Washington , Roua Sharbaji , said : `` the Syrian president only derives his legitimacy from the Syrian people , and only the Syrian people are concerned with this matter '' . 
In an interview with the BBC World Service , she said : `` We do expect neighbouring Arab states to play a more constructive role to help Syria overcome this crisis . '' 
The Jordanian monarch said he had spoken twice to his neighbor earlier this year , and also sent his chief of royal court in June . 
If Bashar has the interest of his country -LRB- at heart -RRB- he would step down '' End Quote King Abdullah of Jordan `` It became very clear to me that they were not interested in dialogue with Jordan or a lot of other countries unfortunately , '' he remarked regretfully . 
He said the Syrian regime still believed it was in a `` fairly comfortable position and will continue to play groups off each other . '' 
He said there still was not a `` cohesive opposition '' inside Syria because it would be `` oppressed very quickly '' . 
King Abdullah has also come under unprecedented pressure for political reform in his own country . 
There are still no strong calls for an end to the Hashemite monarchy but opposition groups are calling for a stronger , more representative parliament and an elected prime minister . 
King Abdullah , who succeeded his father King Hussein in 1999 , has been talking about political reform since he came to power . 
His critics accuse him of going too slowly and being wary of far-reaching democratic reform . 
Asked why his frequent changes of prime ministers and governments - three this year alone - had not resulted in significant reform , King Abdullah replied : `` Those who are scared of change , whether it is political or economic , have been very destructive over the past 12 years . '' 
But he admitted he also had to `` shoulder responsibility '' . 
As for Syria , beyond calling on President Assad to do more to bring about political change , the king admitted no-one had a clear idea of how to move forward . 
10 June : Turkish PM condemns the `` savagery '' of the response to the unrest 19 July : Qatar closes its embassy in Damascus after an attack by Assad loyalists 8 August : Saudi Arabia condemns crackdown and recalls its envoy in Damascus 10 August : US imposes new sanctions on Syrian telecom companies and banks 18 August : US , UK , Germany and France call on President Assad to step down ; US imposes full ban on oil imports 12 November : Arab League suspends Syria from the organization 14 November : Jordanian king openly urges Mr Assad to go ; EU tightens sanctions `` If there is a life after Bashar , what is it ? '' 
Speaking of leaders across the region and beyond , he said , `` the unknown is scaring them more than the known '' . 
Mr Assad 's supporters in a country comprising many ethnic and religious minoritieas also cite fears of possible chaos and collapse as a convincing reason to stick with the current order . 
King Abdullah said concern about instability in Syria was heightened by other regional crises including the `` Iranian nuclear file '' and the absence of an Israeli-Palestinian peace deal `` which could be leading us into tremendous difficulty in 2012 '' . 
But he was adamant that no country was seriously considering military intervention . 
He warned that `` different countries have different agendas ... it would be playing ` Pandora 's box ' '' . 
Like all of Syria 's neighbors , Jordan is already giving refuge to thousands of Syrians fleeing across the border . 
The king said his country would continue to `` open our arms '' to those who had to leave . 
Syria is also a critical trade route for Jordan , providing the kingdom with essential goods , including food . 
Many tribes straddle the frontier , relying on cross-border trade . 
Tension between Arab neighbors can be explosive . 
But concern over the consequences of speaking out seems to have been eclipsed by greater worry over the mounting violence next door . 
King Abdullah said the Arab spring was `` not even half way through '' . 
He expected `` tumultuous changes '' across the region for the next few years . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Protests against President Bashar al-Assad have been growing Middle Eastern papers generally welcome the Arab League 's decision to suspend Syria for its continued use of force against protesters , but some media outlets in Iran and China are sceptical about Western influence over the move . 
Several Arab papers say the decision will isolate Syrian President Bashar al-Assad diplomatically , and that the government now has no option but to conform to the League 's demands . 
However other Middle Eastern papers , as well as commentators in the state-owned press in China , are concerned that the resolution may be used as a pretext for military intervention . 
Some fear the suspension may aggravate the situation . 
Syria 's state newspaper is defiant , branding the suspension as `` an American decision '' . 
Editorial in Jordan 's Al-Dustur : `` If the Syrian regime really wants to save Syria and get out of the crisis it is facing , it has no alternative but to implement the Arab initiative fully Any deviation from the Arab initiative means opening the door to disaster . '' 
Badr Bin Sa'ud in Saudi Ukaz : `` Syria has received an unexpected blow and the Arab League has abandoned its long held attitude of just sitting by as a spectator . '' 
`` Judging by past experience , the Arab League plan is not going to be implemented by powerbrokers in Damascus . 
Deadlines , just like condemnations and sanctions , do not appear to register in the consciousness of Assad or those around him . 
It is high time a robust demand is issued with the threat of reprise -LRB- sic -RRB- should that demand fail to be met . '' 
Dawud al-Basri in Kuwait 's Al-Siyassah : `` The Arab League , in its historical step , has opened the doors to the end of the Syrian regime and saved the Syrian people The ball is now in the court of the international community and the protection of the Syrian people has become an international and humanitarian duty . '' 
Hojjatollah Judaki in Iran 's Sharq : `` The current situation shows that Arabs will not be prepared to compromise with Syria so as to prevent the crisis spreading to their countries , particularly after Syria accepted the Arab plan but refused to implement it . 
Recalling Arab ambassadors from Damascus will make Syria 's position more difficult in the international arena . '' 
Karim Ja ` fari in Iran 's E'temad : `` Despite all the propaganda by the Arab media , the Syrian government and the army are still powerful , and they have powerful and influential allies The Arab League is not in a position to influence Syria 's fate . '' 
Talal Awkal in Palestinian Al-Ayyam : `` In the wake of the Arab League 's decision the Syrian regime has lost its Arab legitimacy This situation will give the public the courage to take to the streets and challenge -LRB- the government -RRB- '' . 
Muhyi al-Din al-Muhammad in Syria 's Tishrin : `` The decision to suspend Syria 's membership from the Arab League was not an Arab decision at all . 
It was an American decision . '' 
`` The resolution opens the door for external military intervention in Syria under the pretext of protecting civilians the most important lesson which the Syria regime learned from the Libyan experience is that if any military intervention is launched against it , it will have to fight to the death . '' 
Li Yida and Jiao Xiang in China 's Renmin Ribao : `` The Arab League does not want to completely fall out with Syria . 
This has made its efforts to resolve the Syrian crisis within an ` Arab framework ' ineffective , resulting in external forces carrying out interference in the region again . '' 
`` External forces are applying political pressure and economic sanctions and even preparing for military intervention , so the confrontation between the Syrian government and the opposition may be further exacerbated . '' 
Maksim Yusin in Russia 's Kommersant : `` Bashar al-Asad is left almost totally isolated diplomatically Moscow and Beijing have the right of veto in the UN Security Council , which defends Damascus from full-scale international sanctions . 
But those measures that the West and Arab countries will take may be enough to ruin the Syrian economy . '' 
Mehmet Y Yilmaz in Turkey 's Hurriyet : `` Out of 21 Arab countries , only Lebanon and Yemen voted against Syria 's suspension I believe it would be good for those who give advice to Syria about ` human rights and democracy ' to take a look at themselves . '' 
`` The Muslim community wants the Arab League to escape US clutches and withdraw the decision after talks with the Syrian president , otherwise the US will continue to create chaos in Muslim countries one after another . '' 
BBC Monitoring selects and translates news from radio , television , press , news agencies and the internet from 150 countries in more than 70 languages . 
It is based in Caversham , UK , and has several bureaux abroad . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


BEIRUT | Mon Nov 14 , 2011 12:21 pm EST BEIRUT -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - Syria 's President Bashar al-Assad , self-styled champion of Arab unity , faces deepening isolation after fellow Arab states announced sanctions on Syria for his eight-month crackdown on protests calling for his overthrow . 
For the leader of a country which , under 40 years of Assad family rule , has portrayed itself as the principal defender of Arab rights , the Arab League 's move on Saturday was a wounding blow . 
His military crackdown on the uprising , in which the United Nations estimates 3,500 people have been killed , had already alienated former ally Turkey and led Western nations to impose sanctions and call for him to step down . 
But the surprise decision by the Arab League to suspend Syria and announce political and economic sanctions marked a dramatic new low in Assad 's international standing , leaving him ever more dependent on a close alliance with non-Arab Iran . 
Assad 's determination to crush an uprising which he blames on Islamist militants backed by foreign powers , coupled with the resilience of street protests and the emergence of an armed insurgency , has made Syria 's uprising one of the most intractable conflicts of this year 's Arab revolts . 
His use of tanks to seize back control of the city of Hama in August revived memories of his father 's crushing of an uprising nearly 30 years ago , and led U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to accuse him of `` losing all sense of humanity . '' 
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe warned Assad last month that the `` barbaric repression '' in Syria would `` end with the fall of the regime , '' and even ally Russia said he risked a `` sad fate '' unless he ended the violence and implemented reforms . 
`` If he just defiantly continues to defy signals from the Arab world and international community it 's increasingly grim for him , '' said Rami Khouri , a Beirut-based Middle East analyst . 
Just weeks before the uprising erupted in March , the 46-year-old leader said Syria was immune from the rebellions which have overthrown the leaders of Tunisia , Egypt and Libya because its foreign policy was closely aligned with popular Arab sentiment . 
In a speech at Damascus University in June , one of just a handful of addresses he has made since the unrest began , Assad justified the crackdown and said he was overwhelmed with support from Syrians he had met to discuss the crisis . 
`` The love I felt from those people who represent most of the Syrian people is something I have never felt at any stage of my life , '' he said . 
In fact the unrest has polarized Syria . 
Many demonstrators now openly chant for Assad 's execution -- a scene unimaginable eight months ago -- but he is still able to rally huge crowds for state-organized demonstrations and retains a core of support particularly among minority Christians and his own Alawite sect . 
Alongside the military campaign against protests , Assad has lifted a state of emergency in place for nearly 50 years , approved laws to allow parties other than his ruling Baath Party to be established , and promised dialogue with the opposition . 
The characteristically ambiguous stance , mixing iron-fisted security while holding out the promise of change , helped to mute international criticism in the early stages of the uprising . 
But critics said his decision to send troops into several cities in the Muslim holy month of Ramadan four months ago showed he had chosen the `` security option '' to crush the protests rather than address their grievances . 
Tall and softly spoken Assad was thrust into the spotlight after the death of his elder brother Basel in a car crash in 1994 . 
Called back from medical studies in London , he gradually assumed a higher profile and six years later inherited the presidency when his father died after ruling Syria for 30 years . 
To allow the 34-year-old to assume power , Syria 's parliament met hastily to amend a constitutional clause requiring the president to be at least 40 years old . 
In office , he held out the prospect of reforming one of the Arab world 's most tightly controlled states and oversaw a short-lived move toward political freedoms before his `` Damascus Spring '' faded amid a wave of repression and arrests . 
Assad also strengthened his father 's strategic alliance with Iran and supported militant Islamist groups including the Palestinian Hamas and the Lebanese Shi'ite group Hezbollah . 
He ended nearly three decades of Syrian military presence in neighboring Lebanon under international pressure following the 2005 assassination of Lebanese statesman Rafik al-Hariri . 
But the collapse in January of Beirut 's pro-Western government , led by Hariri 's son , was the latest sign that Assad had clawed back influence in Lebanon , one of only two countries to oppose Saturday 's Arab League move . 
Although he backs anti-Israel militants , he also pursued indirect peace talks with Israel and , despite continued Israeli occupation of the Golan Heights captured from Syria in the 1967 Arab-Israeli war , ensured the front line usually remained quiet . 
At home he started liberalizing the economy , easing decades of central control and allowing limited foreign investment . 
But while those around him , including his cousin Rami Makhlouf , acquired great wealth , ordinary Syrians saw few benefits . 
He also maintained the grip on power held by his family and Alawite sect in the mainly Sunni Muslim state . 
His brother Maher commands the Republican Guard and is the second most powerful man in the country while brother-in-law Assef Shawkat is deputy chief-of-staff of the armed forces . 
Assad 's wife Asma , who grew up in London and worked at an investment bank , helped him try to project a softer , liberal and modern image to the outside world , countering Syria 's reputation as a repressive police state . 
He insists that he remains in touch with his people even after a decade in power and eight months of trying to crush a determined uprising . 
`` I live a normal life . 
I drive my own car , we have neighbors , I take my kids to school , '' he told the British Sunday Telegraph newspaper last month . 
`` That 's why I am popular . '' 
An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


Mr Erdogan has become increasingly critical of Syria in recent months Turkey has stepped up its pressure on neighbouring Syria over the crackdown on protests by the Damascus government . 
Turkish PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan said the future could not be built on `` the blood of the oppressed '' , and condemned attacks on Turkish missions in Syria . 
Meanwhile , Turkey 's energy minister announced that joint oil exploration projects with Syria had been halted . 
Damascus is also facing increasing pressure from the Arab League , which has suspended its membership . 
On Monday , King Abdullah of Jordan became the first Arab leader to openly urge Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to stand down . 
The UN says more than 3,500 people have died since the start of the protests against President Assad in March . 
The Syrian authorities blame the violence on armed gangs and militants . 
In an apparent show of goodwill on Tuesday , the authorities freed 1,180 people who had been arrested during protests , Syrian state media reported . 
The state news agency said those released had no `` blood on their hands '' . 
The release of prisoners is among the demands of the Arab League , which is due to meet again on Wednesday . 
Jonathan Head BBC News , Istanbul The Turkish prime minister is habitually outspoken . 
Even so , his latest rebuke of President Assad - a man he considered a personal friend until a few months ago - was dramatic . 
Relations between the two countries fell further over the weekend , when pro-Assad crowds attacked Turkish diplomatic missions in Syria . 
Turkey has now stopped co-operation on energy projects , and says it is considering further sanctions which would not hurt ordinary people . 
Turkish business leaders say trade , which was worth about $ 2.5 bn last year , has all but stopped . 
Along with the Arab League , Turkey is now trying to plan for a transition to a post-Assad era , through discussions with Syrian opposition figures in exile . 
That transition , though , is proving hard to predict , with clashes increasing between the government and opposition groups inside the country . 
On Monday , Mr Erdogan - who once cultivated close ties with Syria - said Ankara had abandoned hope that Bashar al-Assad would respond to international demands to stop using violence . 
`` Bashar Assad should see the tragic ends of the ones who declared war against their own people , '' Mr Erdogan told MPs of his AK Party . 
`` I want to remind him that future can not be built on the blood of the oppressed . '' 
History , Mr Erdogan added , would `` will mark these leaders as the leaders who feed on blood '' . 
Turkish Energy Minister Taner Yildiz announced that Ankara had shelved plans for Turkey 's TPAO petroleum company to explore oil with Syria 's state oil company . 
Mr Yildiz also threatened to stop Turkey 's electricity exports to Syria . 
`` Right now , we are providing electricity '' to Syria , Mr Yildiz said . 
`` If -LRB- Syria -RRB- continues on this course , then we might have to reconsider these decisions . '' 
The White House said it welcomed the `` strong stance Turkey has taken '' . 
`` Turkey 's comments today further point to the fact that President Assad is isolated , '' President Obama 's deputy national security adviser Ben Rhodes told reporters . 
The moves follow attacks on Turkish diplomatic missions in Damascus and the Syrian cities of Aleppo and Latakia by supporters of Mr Assad at the weekend . 
The attackers expressed anger at Turkey 's decision to support the Arab League 's decision to suspend Syria . 
Turkey is not a member of the league , but its foreign minister is to meet his Arab League counterparts during Wednesday 's meeting in Morocco . 
The Syrian government condemned its suspension as `` shameful and malicious '' , and accused other Arab countries of conspiring with the West to undermine the regime . 
In his interview with the BBC on Monday , King Abdullah said that if he were in Mr Assad 's position , he would make sure that `` whoever comes behind me has the ability to change the status quo '' . 
He urged President Assad to begin talks on an orderly transfer of power . 
The call came on one of the bloodiest days since the unrest began . 
Activists said at least 70 people were killed in fighting that reportedly included a gun battle between security forces and army defectors in the restive southern province of Deraa . 
Many Western powers have urged President Assad to stand down . 
However Russia has so far refused to do so . 
On Tuesday , Syrian opposition leader Burhan Ghalioun had talks with officials in Moscow but said he had failed to convince them to change their position . 
Are you in Syria ? 
Do you have friends or family there ? 
You can send your comments to the BBC using the form below : If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on . 
In some cases a selection of your comments will be published , displaying your name as you provide it and location , unless you state otherwise . 
Your contact details will never be published . 
When sending us pictures , video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others , take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws . 
Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Arab League foreign ministers are expected to formally suspend Syria on Wednesday Arab foreign ministers are to meet to consider how to increase the pressure on Syria , a day after one of the bloodiest crackdowns on protesters . 
Syria will be suspended from the Arab League on Wednesday and has said it will not attend the meeting in Morocco . 
At least 3,500 protesters seeking the end of President Bashar al-Assad 's rule have been killed since the government began its crackdown , the UN says . 
Activists said that at least 70 people were killed on Tuesday alone . 
The Arab League decided last week to suspend Syria , but the decision will only be formally adopted at the meeting in the Moroccan capital Rabat . 
Syria has condemned the suspension as `` shameful and malicious '' , accusing other Arab countries of conspiring with the West to undermine the regime . 
The Syrian authorities request for an emergency summit to discuss its unrest , which it blames on armed gangs , was rejected by six Gulf states . 
The six-nation Gulf Co-operation Council -LRB- GCC -RRB- - whose members led the drive to punish Syria for its crackdown - said Arab foreign ministers have been holding preparatory talks ahead of Wednesday 's meeting . 
Jon Leyne BBC Middle East correspondent , Rabat Arab ministers are under huge pressure to push ahead with their tough line on Syria , after they decided at the weekend to suspend Syria from the Arab League . 
The UN Secretary General has called for the Arab League to exercise leadership over Syria , the US called for a forceful message from the Arab ministers , and Turkey has threatened to cut off cross-border electricity supplies . 
In an apparent attempt to stave off action , Syria released more than 1,000 political prisoners . 
But there was another attack on a a diplomatic mission , Jordan 's , after King Abdullah called on President Assad to step down . 
Arab countries are under increasing pressure to continue their tough stance towards Syria , following its suspension from the group . 
In an apparent show of goodwill ahead of the summit , the authorities freed 1,180 people who had been arrested during protests , Syrian state media reported . 
The release of prisoners is among the demands of the Arab League . 
On Tuesday , Turkey 's prime minister became the latest international figure to speak out against the violence in Syria , following comments from King Abdullah of Jordan . 
Turkey is not a member of the league , but its foreign minister is to meet his Arab League counterparts during the talks in Rabat . 
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Syria 's future could not be built on `` the blood of the oppressed '' and said Ankara had abandoned hope that Mr Assad would respond to international demands to stop using violence . 
`` Bashar al-Assad should see the tragic ends of the ones who declared war against their own people , '' Mr Erdogan told MPs of his AK Party . 
Mr Erdogan has become increasingly critical of Syria in recent months History , he added , would `` will mark these leaders as the leaders who feed on blood '' . 
Turkish Energy Minister Taner Yildiz also announced that Ankara had shelved plans for Turkey 's TPAO petroleum company to explore oil with Syria 's state oil company and he also threatened to stop Turkey 's electricity exports to Syria . 
The White House said it welcomed the `` strong stance Turkey has taken '' . 
`` Turkey 's comments today further point to the fact that President Assad is isolated , '' President Obama 's deputy national security adviser Ben Rhodes told reporters . 
The moves follow attacks on Turkish diplomatic missions in Damascus and the Syrian cities of Aleppo and Latakia by supporters of Mr Assad at the weekend . 
The attackers expressed anger at Turkey 's decision to support the Arab League 's decision to suspend Syria . 
Also on Tuesday , in what is being seen as a sign that Saudi Arabia 's rulers now foresee an end to Mr Assad 's rule , the former Saudi ambassador to the US , Prince Turki al-Faisal , said it was `` inevitable '' that Mr Assad would step down . 
On Tuesday , activists said at least 70 people were killed in fighting that reportedly included a gun battle between security forces and army defectors in the restive southern province of Deraa . 
November appears to be the bloodiest month of the eight-month revolt , with well over 300 people killed so far . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


BEIRUT | Tue Nov 15 , 2011 2:51 pm EST BEIRUT -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - Long-restrained tensions in Lebanon over the uprising in its powerful neighbor Syria have burst into the open after an Arab League vote to suspend Damascus -- even bringing politicians to blows on live television . 
Divided over their relationship to Syria , politicians previously trod carefully in statements for or against the Syrian government whose army has been struggling to crush eight months of protests against President Bashar al-Assad . 
But Saturday 's vote at the Arab League , in which Lebanon was one of only two countries to oppose Syria 's suspension , exposed the depths of divisions in a country where many are linked to Syria by religious , political and family ties , but others have bitter memories of three decades of Syrian military presence in Lebanon . 
The Lebanese talk show `` With Objectivity '' was abruptly taken off air on Monday evening when local politicians Mustafa Alloush and Fayez Shukr , seated on-set in business suits , started throwing glasses at one another and raising their chairs -- sending insults and papers flying . 
Shukr , from Lebanon 's pro-Syrian Baath Party , fumed as Alloush said Assad was `` a liar . '' 
Shukr and Alloush , from Lebanon 's anti-Syria opposition parties , then traded expletives . 
Prime Minister Najib Mikati 's government , which is backed by Hezbollah and other pro-Syrian parties , angered the opposition and surprised even some cabinet members by choosing to vote against Syria 's suspension , rather than abstaining as it has done at United Nations votes on Syria . 
`` We are seeing an escalation of political tensions . 
It is a sign Lebanon is split , '' said Minister of Public Works Ghazi Aridi . 
`` We should have taken a neutral stance ... What we saw on television last night is a direct result of these rising tensions . 
It 's not only unfortunate and embarrassing , it 's worrying , '' he told Reuters . 
Lebanon has maintained relative calm despite the bloodshed across its borders . 
Many Lebanese , haunted by the specter of their 1975-1990 civil war that divided the country along sectarian lines , have been tight-lipped about Syria 's conflict , which many also worry could spiral into sectarian war . 
Some politicians have posted increasingly heated comments on Twitter , which has grown in appeal as a platform for Lebanese political leaders from President Michel Suleiman to former prime minister and opposition leader Saad al-Hariri . 
On Sunday , after Lebanon 's vote against Syria 's suspension in the Arab League , Hariri posted a string of critiques on the social network . 
`` They will be judged by the Lebanese and the Arabs and by history for their immoral and subservient abandonment of all national and human dignity , '' he wrote , adding that the vote put Lebanon on `` The side of murder , dictatorship and anti-Arab identity . '' 
Mikati , who has also become a regular Twitter user , even hosting Twitter debates , defended the vote against Syria 's suspension . 
`` Leadership is not just about followership or giving people what they want to hear , '' he told Twitter followers , arguing the decision to vote was done in the national interest . 
The prime minister also said he was informed of the on-air political scuffle on Monday : `` Unfortunately , it happens on TV in many democracies ... but , not my style . '' 
An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


WASHINGTON | Tue Nov 15 , 2011 5:53 pm EST WASHINGTON -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - Syrian President Bashar al-Assad 's refusal to halt his government 's violence against its own people has made his departure from power inevitable , a senior Saudi prince said on Tuesday . 
Prince Turki al-Faisal , the former chief of Saudi intelligence services , said Assad had made his position clear by failing to live up to commitments made under an Arab League initiative to stop the bloodshed and start political dialogue . 
`` Inevitably , I think , the lack of response of Mr. Assad to all the efforts made to end the fighting in Syria means that he 's taken the view of not accepting these matters , '' he told a Washington , D.C. , audience . 
`` In that context , there will be growing popular opposition to him , and killing every day . 
I think it 's inevitable that he will have to step down in one form or another . '' 
The nephew of Saudi Arabia 's king is a former ambassador to Washington and London and remains an influential public voice of Saudi Arabia 's royal family although he has held no official government role since retiring in 2006 . 
The prince said the Arab League had given Assad a `` last chance '' to comply with its proposal to resolve the situation and would now be expected to take further steps -- citing Libya as a precedent . 
He said that Saudi Arabia and its partners in the Gulf first brought Libya to the Arab League in March `` and pushed the Arab League to take a decision to move the issue to the United Nations Security Council and bring about the resolution that allowed for intervention in Libya . '' 
`` Whether the Arab League will go that route -LRB- on Syria -RRB- , I really ca n't say , but it is an option and it has been practiced by the Arab League , '' he said . 
The Arab League on Saturday voted to suspend Syria , but stopped short of calling for Assad 's departure or proposing any sort of Libya-style foreign intervention to resolve the crisis . 
Arab foreign ministers are due to meet in Morocco on Wednesday to consider the next steps on Syria , where the United Nations estimates that some 3,500 civilians have been killed since anti-government protests began in March . 
We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion , anecdotes , links and data . 
Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters . 
all the articles are unverified and assumptions of what people are thinking . 
you toppled gaddaffi over the internet . 
but you cant hit to birds with one rock . 
maybe your propaganda campaign would have worked if you hit syria first . 
I agree with U . . 
if these Clowns stop their predictions about others and maybe work on fixing their own twisted society like let the women walk next to their men instead of ten steps behind , thats one example . 
This discussion is now closed . 
We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication . 
An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


PLEASE NOTE : REUTERS IS UNABLE TO INDEPENDENTLY VERIFY SOME OF THE CONTENT OF THIS VIDEO , WHICH HAS BEEN OBTAINED FROM A SOCIAL MEDIA WEBSITE Members of the Syrian army continue to defect - suggesting the popular uprising against President Bashar al-Assad - could slide into armed conflict . 
Amateur video that could not be independently verified by Reuters - purportedly shows men defecting from the Syrian military - and promising to protect civilians . 
In Morocco , the Arab League met after suspending Syria 's membership -- for failing to stop months of bloody crackdowns on government protesters . 
Qatar 's Prime Minister Hamad bin Jassim al-Thani . 
SOUNDBITE : Qatari Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Hamad bin Jassim al-Thani -LRB- Arabic -RRB- `` We can not accept that people could be killed the way it is happening in Syria without intervening to stop the bloodshed and to avoid more violence , more violence and more killings . 
This is why we took a difficult decision for all of us because we are responsible for preserving the blood of our brothers in Syria . '' 
The Arab foreign ministers called on Syria to implement the Arab peace plan - which includes : pulling troops from cities , releasing prisoners and dialogue with the opposition . 
Syria has said it is committed to the plan , but the bloodshed continues . 
More Amateur video purportedly shows a neighborhood in Homs - shelled by tanks . 
The Assad regime has blamed the violence on terrorist gangs who they say have killed 1,100 soldiers and police . 
The United Nations said more than 3,500 people have been killed since the protests erupted in March . 
Sarah Irwin , Reuters . 
Arab League meets after Syria 's suspension -LRB- 1:46 -RRB- Nov. 16 - Arab foreign ministers met in Morocco , calling for an end to violence in Syria , as amateur video purportedly shows more members of the Syrian military defecting . 
-LRB- Transcript -RRB- An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


RABAT | Wed Nov 16 , 2011 5:51 pm EST RABAT -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - The Arab League moved a step closer to imposing economic sanctions on Syria on Wednesday and signaled it was running out of patience with President Bashar al-Assad 's failure to halt an eight-month-old crackdown on protests . 
Syrian army defectors attacked an intelligence complex on the edge of Damascus in a high-profile assault that showed how close the popular uprising against Assad 's rule now is to sliding into armed conflict . 
Further intensifying the international pressure on Assad to end his repression of protests , France withdrew its ambassador from Syria and Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said Paris was working with the Arab League on a draft U.N. resolution . 
Last month Russia and China vetoed a U.N. Security Council resolution condemning Damascus , but the Arab League 's decision last weekend to suspend Syria has given international moves new momentum . 
On the day the suspension came into force , the League 's foreign ministers met in the Moroccan capital with a Syrian flag next to an empty chair where the Syrian minister , who boycotted the meeting , would have sat . 
The League -- which normally shies away from decisive action against its own members -- decided at the meeting to ask its experts to draft recommendations on economic sanctions on Syria . 
The decision brought a plan announced at the weekend one step closer to implementation . 
At their meeting in Rabat , the Arab foreign ministers also gave Damascus three days to implement a road map agreed this month to end the bloodshed and allow in observers , though they did not say what would happen if Syria failed to comply . 
Asked if the ultimatum was a last attempt at diplomacy , Qatari Foreign Minister Sheikh Hamad Bin Jassim al-Thani told reporters : `` We do not want to talk about a last-ditch attempt because I do not want this to sound like a warning . 
`` What I can say is that we are close to the end of the road as far as the -LRB- League 's -RRB- efforts on this front are concerned . '' 
The Arab League has stopped short of calling for Assad 's departure or proposing any Libya-style military intervention , but its ostracism of Syria is a blow to a country whose ruling Baath party puts Arab nationalism at the center of its credo . 
In Damascus , Assad supporters threw stones at the embassy of the United Arab Emirates , in one of the most secure districts of the city , and smeared its walls with graffiti , witnesses said . 
Speaking earlier in Rabat , Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu compared Syria with Libya , where rebels captured , humiliated and killed Muammar Gaddafi last month . 
`` The regime should meet the demands of its people , '' he said . 
`` The collective massacres in Syria and ... the bloodshed can not continue like this . '' 
Turkey has spent years courting its neighbor , but is now leading regional efforts to pit pressure on Assad . 
In Tehran , Iranian Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Salehi criticized the Arab League for `` acting in a way that will hurt the security of the region . '' 
He told the official news agency IRNA that Syria , an ally of Iran since 1980 , had repeatedly pledged to meet legitimate popular demands and enact reforms . 
`` Unfortunately , some countries believe that they are outside the crisis ... but they are mistaken because if a crisis happens they will be entangled by its consequences . '' 
Western countries have tightened sanctions on Syria and on Monday Jordan 's King Abdullah became the first Arab head of state to urge Assad to quit . 
In the early months of the uprising , attempts by security forces to crush mainly peaceful protests accounted for most of the violence . 
But since August there have been growing reports of army defectors and armed civilians fighting back . 
Activists said Free Syrian Army fighters fired machineguns and rockets at a large Air Force Intelligence complex on the northern edge of the capital at about 2:30 a.m. -LRB- 0030 GMT -RRB- . 
A gunfight ensued and helicopters circled over the complex , on the Damascus-Aleppo highway . 
There were no immediate reports of casualties . 
Syrian state media did not mention the attack . 
Washington said it had few details and no confirmation of the incident , but that Assad was courting trouble . 
`` It 's not surprising that we are now seeing this kind of violence , '' State Department spokesman Mark Toner said . 
`` We do n't condone it in any way , shape or form . 
But let 's be very clear that it is the brutal tactics of Assad and his regime in dealing with what began as a non-violent movement -LRB- that -RRB- is now taking Syria down a very dangerous path . '' 
A Western diplomat in Damascus described the assault as `` hugely symbolic and tactically new , '' saying that if the reported details were true it would be `` much , much more coordinated than anything we have seen before . '' 
`` To actually attack a base like this is something else , and so close to Damascus as well , '' said the diplomat , adding that fighting in recent weeks involving army deserters in the town of Rastan and the city of Homs resembled a localized civil war . 
`` It 's not a nationwide civil war , but in very specific locations , it is looking like that , '' said the diplomat . 
The Free Syrian Army was set up by deserters and is led by Colonel Riad al-Asaad , who is based in southern Turkey . 
It announced this week that it had formed a `` temporary military council '' of nine rebel officers , led by Asaad . 
The statement said the Free Syrian Army aimed to `` bring down the regime and protect citizens from the repression ... and prevent chaos as soon as the regime falls , '' adding that it would form a military court to try `` members of the regime who are proven to have been involved in killing operations . '' 
Syrian television showed thousands of Assad 's supporters rallying in Damascus and Latakia to mark the day his father Hafez al-Assad seized power in 1970 . 
It said the crowds were also voicing their rejection of the Arab League 's decision . 
`` God , Syria , Bashar , nothing else ! '' 
shouted demonstrators in central Damascus , who turned out in heavy rain to wave flags and posters of the president . 
Two large posters of Assad and his father hung from a building . 
`` Neither rain nor sanctions will stop us expressing our nationalism , '' the television said . 
Syrian authorities have banned most independent media . 
They blame the unrest on `` armed terrorist gangs '' and foreign-backed militants who they say have killed 1,100 soldiers and police . 
Hundreds of people have been killed this month , one of the bloodiest periods of the revolt . 
Syria says it remains committed to the Arab peace plan , which calls for the withdrawal of troops from urban areas , the release of prisoners and a dialogue with the opposition . 
Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters . 
Let the people of Syria decide for themselves . 
Until the leader steps down and allows the democratic process to begin , we will never know what the majority of Syrians really want and demand . 
If many live in fear , things have to change . 
This discussion is now closed . 
We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication . 
An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


Anti-government protesters have continued to take to the streets despite the crackdown Russia 's foreign minister has said the situation in Syria is beginning to resemble civil war , after renegade soldiers attacked a key army base . 
Sergei Lavrov said all countries hoping for a peaceful solution in Syria must call on all parties to end the violence Turkey has criticised the global response to Syria , saying it is being overlooked because it is not wealthy . 
Earlier , the Arab League - which has suspended Syria - gave its government three days to end `` bloody repression '' . 
At a meeting in the Moroccan capital , Rabat , on Wednesday , the League 's 22 members said Syria must allow in a team of international monitors or face sanctions . 
Mr Lavrov was speaking a day after a group of renegade soldiers known as the Free Syrian Army -LRB- FSA -RRB- was reported to have launched an attack on a key government army base outside Damascus . 
Unconfirmed reports said six government soldiers were killed in the assault on the Air Force Intelligence building in Harasta . 
Mr Lavrov said such attacks were `` completely similar to real civil war '' . 
He said weapons were being smuggled in to Syria to be used by the opposition , and that it was `` necessary to stop violence no matter where it comes from '' - adding that opposition forces should also be held accountable . 
Reportedly formed in late July by defected army Col Riyad al-Asad Claims to number some 15,000 although analysts say that is unlikely Aims to `` stand up to the irresponsible military machine which is protecting the regime '' Says it has carried out a number of attacks on government troops including ambushes Earlier this month , Moscow vetoed a UN resolution condemning the violence and called for dialogue between the government and opposition groups . 
China , which also vetoed the proposal , said on Thursday it was `` highly concerned '' by the rising violence . 
`` We hope that all relevant parties will work together to accelerate the implementation of the resolution scheme reached between the Arab League and Syria and seek to resolve the Syrian crisis through political means , '' said foreign ministry spokesman Liu Weimin . 
The Arab League plan , drawn up earlier this month , calls on Syria to withdraw tanks from restive cities , cease its attacks on protesters and engage in dialogue with the opposition within two weeks . 
Mr Assad agreed to the plan , but failed to honor it . 
More than 370 people have been killed since , say rights groups , in what appears to be the bloodiest month in the eight-month uprising . 
The UN says more than 3,500 people have died since protests started in March . 
Syrian authorities blame the violence on armed gangs and militants . 
The Syrian government has severely restricted access for foreign journalists , and reports are difficult to verify . 
FSA commander Col Riad al-Asad told the BBC on Wednesday that while he did not want people to take up arms against the regime , `` it is our right to defend our people because the international community does nothing '' . 
He called on countries to provide his forces with weapons , saying he believed they could `` topple the regime very soon '' . 
A number of countries have now withdrawn their ambassadors from Syria , and its diplomatic isolation is growing over its bloody eight-month crackdown on anti-government unrest . 
Turkey , which shares a long border with Syria , has been increasingly critical of Mr Assad and on Thursday , Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan accused the international community of failing to act on the Syrian crisis because it was not resource-rich , as had been the case with Libya . 
`` The silence and unresponsiveness of those who have an appetite for Libya to the massacres in Syria is creating irreparable wounds in the conscience of humanity , '' he said at an energy forum in Istanbul . 
Meanwhile , French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe is heading to Turkey for talks on how to address the growing crisis . 
They are expected to focus on ways in which the international community can increase pressure on President Bashar al-Assad to stand down , and to begin planning for the post-Assad era . 
The parties will also discuss ways in which the issue can be pushed at the UN Security Council . 
Mr Juppe has warned that `` the vice is tightening '' around the Syrian regime and that the `` brutal , savage repression being carried out for months can not continue '' . 
But on Thursday , he said the main opposition group , the Syrian National Council -LRB- SNC -RRB- , had to become better organised if it was to take over . 
The BBC 's Jonathan Head in Ankara says Turkey and France have not always seen eye-to-eye during the Arab Spring uprisings but will hope to present Syria with incontrovertible proof that it is now almost totally isolated . 
France , Britain , Germany and a number of Arab states are to submit a draft resolution to the calling for a vote in the UN General Assembly condemning the violence . 
However it is clear that events on the ground are outpacing international diplomacy , our correspondent adds . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


AMMAN | Thu Nov 17 , 2011 11:20 pm GMT AMMAN -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - Russia stood by President Bashar al-Assad on Thursday as Arab and Western countries sought to pile pressure on the Syrian leader to halt a violent crackdown on his opponents . 
The Arab League has suspended Syria and given it until the end of the week to comply with an Arab peace plan to end bloodshed that has cost more than 3,500 lives , by a U.N. count . 
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov , whose country is one of Syria 's few remaining foreign friends , said demands for Assad 's removal would destroy the initiative , which calls for dialogue between the Syrian government and its foes . 
`` If some opposition representatives , with support from some foreign countries , declare that dialogue can begin only after President Assad goes , then the Arab League initiative becomes worthless and meaningless , '' Lavrov said . 
He was speaking after talks with European Union foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton , who said the world must bring all the influence it could to bear on Syria to change course . 
Lavrov said a raid on Wednesday by the Free Syrian Army on an Airforce Intelligence complex on the outskirts of Damascus was `` already completely similar to real civil war '' . 
Opposition sources said Syrian army defectors had killed or wounded 20 security police in the early-morning attack , the first of its kind in an eight-month revolt against Assad . 
It was not possible to verify the casualty toll . 
The authorities have not mentioned the attack . 
Syria has barred most foreign media since unrest began in March . 
`` The attack itself was significant because of the target and the ability to pull it off . 
It 's much too soon to tell if this is the beginning of a trend of armed opposition to the regime , '' a U.S. official said on condition of anonymity . 
State Department spokesman Mark Toner said the United States did not have any contact with the Syrian Free Army but did not condone any use of violence . 
He rejected the suggestion that Syria was virtually in civil war , saying : `` We believe it 's very much the Assad regime carrying out a campaign of violence , intimidation , and repression against innocent protesters . '' 
Residents of Harasta , the suburb where the Airforce Intelligence compound is located , said army deserters had fired rocket-propelled grenades and machineguns for 10 minutes , provoking a security sweep that netted about 70 people . 
Together with Military Intelligence , Airforce Intelligence is in charge of preventing dissent within the armed forces . 
Syria blames the violence on foreign-backed armed groups who it says have killed more than 1,100 soldiers and police . 
Hundreds of people have been killed this month , one of the bloodiest periods in the revolt that began in March . 
Catherine Altalli , of the opposition Syrian National Council , said Wednesday 's assault was understandable after the violence , detention and torture used on peaceful protesters . 
`` I am not saying this is right . 
There have to be limits , '' she said . 
`` But what is unacceptable is that every day bodies come out with marks of torture from Air Force Intelligence buildings and other secret police dungeons across Syria '' . 
Syria 's pervasive security apparatus , dominated by Assad 's minority Alawite sect , underpins the power structure that has enabled Assad and his father before him to rule for 41 years . 
The bloodshed in Syria has angered other Arab and Western nations , whose criticism of Assad led to several attacks on diplomatic missions in Damascus and other cities this week . 
Syrian state media said the authorities had vowed to prosecute anyone who carried out such attacks . 
France , which withdrew its ambassador from Damascus on Wednesday , said it was encouraging Syrian opposition groups , which include the Paris-based Syrian National Council , but remained opposed to outside military intervention . 
`` We have had contacts with them ... in any case we are helping them , we are encouraging them to get organised , '' Foreign Minister Alain Juppe told French BFM radio . 
France was the first Western nation to recognize Libyan rebels in March , but has yet to endorse any Syrian group . 
While the West appears to have no appetite for military intervention in Syria , a leader of Syria 's outlawed Muslim Brotherhood said Turkish military action might be acceptable . 
`` If other interventions are required , such as air protection , because of the regime 's intransigence , then the people will accept Turkish intervention . 
They do not want Western intervention , '' Mohammad Riad Shaqfa , who lives in exile in Saudi Arabia , told a news conference in Istanbul . 
Ankara is considering imposing sanctions on Syria , has hosted opponents of Assad and is working with the Arab League to increase pressure on Damascus , but denies any plan to intervene militarily in its southern neighbor . 
No U.N. sanctions against Syria seem likely given opposition from Russia and China , which last month vetoed a draft Security Council resolution condemning Damascus . 
Now France , Britain and Germany plan to ask the U.N. General Assembly 's human rights committee to approve a resolution condemning the violence in Syria , before putting the non-binding measure to a vote in an Assembly plenary session . 
Burhan Ghalioun , head of the Syrian National Council , called for a calming of sectarian tensions between Alawites and majority Sunni Muslims , especially in the restive city of Homs . 
`` We have seen in the last few weeks kidnappings , assassination and score-settling among members of the same people , even from within the sons of the revolution , which poses a dangerous threat to the gains of the revolution and offers a big service to the regime , '' he said in a statement . 
Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters . 
This discussion is now closed . 
We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication . 
An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


U.S. Northeast digs out from blizzard , tornado strikes in South . 
Full Article France recalls Syria envoy , security HQ attacked AMMAN -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - France recalled its ambassador to Damascus and Syria 's suspension from the Arab League took effect on Wednesday , intensifying diplomatic pressure on President Bashar al-Assad to halt a violent eight-month-old crackdown on protests . 
Syrian army defectors attacked an intelligence complex on the edge of Damascus in a high-profile assault that showed how close the popular uprising is to sliding into armed conflict . 
Hours after the Arab League suspension took effect , Assad supporters threw stones and debris at the embassy of the United Arab Emirates and smeared its walls with graffiti , witnesses said . 
The embassy is in one of the most secure districts of the capital , near Assad 's home and offices . 
Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said France was working with the Arab League on a draft resolution at the United Nations . 
Last month Russia and China vetoed a Security Council resolution that would have condemned Damascus , but since then the normally cautious Arab League has suspended Syria for failing to implement an Arab peace plan . 
`` New violence is taking place and that has led to the closure of the missions in Aleppo and Latakia and to recall our ambassador to Paris , '' Juppe said , referring to weekend attacks by pro-Assad demonstrators on French diplomatic premises , as well as Turkish and Saudi missions , in Syria . 
Arab foreign ministers met in Rabat for an Arab-Turkish forum , where a Syrian flag was placed by an empty chair . 
Turkey , now a fierce critic of its former ally , said Syria had failed to honor an Arab peace plan to halt the unrest . 
Speaking through a translator , Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu compared Syria with Libya , where rebels captured , humiliated and killed Muammar Gaddafi last month . 
`` The regime should meet the demands of its people , '' he said . 
`` The collective massacres in Syria and ... the bloodshed can not continue like this . '' 
In Tehran , Iranian Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Salehi criticised the Arab League for `` acting in a way that will hurt the security of the region . '' 
He told the official news agency IRNA that Syria , an ally of Iran since 1980 , had repeatedly pledged to meet legitimate popular demands and enact reforms . 
`` Unfortunately , some countries believe that they are outside the crisis ... but they are mistaken because if a crisis happens they will be entangled by its consequences . '' 
Saudi Arabia , which is eager to loosen the ties between its regional rival Iran and Syria , said the Arab League was acting in Syria 's interest , not interfering in its affairs . 
`` What 's important is not about suspending or not suspending -LRB- Syria from the League -RRB- , it 's stopping the bloodshed , starting the dialogue , and withdrawing troops from Syrian cities , '' Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal told Al Arabiya channel . 
Western countries have tightened sanctions on Syria and on Monday Jordan 's King Abdullah became the first Arab head of state to urge Assad to quit after ensuring a smooth handover . 
In the early months of the uprising , attempts by security forces to crush mainly peaceful protests accounted for most of the violence . 
But since August there has been a growing number of reports of army defectors and armed civilians fighting back . 
Activists said Free Syrian Army fighters fired machineguns and rockets at a large Air Force Intelligence complex on the northern edge of the capital at about 2:30 a.m. -LRB- 0030 GMT -RRB- . 
A gunfight ensued and helicopters circled over the complex , on the Damascus-Aleppo highway . 
There were no immediate reports of casualties . 
Syrian state media did not mention the attack . 
The U.S. State Department said it had few details and no direct confirmation of the incident , but blamed Assad 's crackdown on protesters . 
`` It 's not surprising that we are now seeing this kind of violence , '' State Department spokesman Mark Toner said . 
`` We do n't condone it in any way , shape or form . 
But let 's be very clear that it is the brutal tactics of Assad and his regime in dealing with what began as a non-violent movement is now taking Syria down a very dangerous path . '' 
A Western diplomat in Damascus described the assault as `` hugely symbolic and tactically new , '' saying that if the reported details were true it would be `` much much more coordinated than anything we have seen before . '' 
`` To actually attack a base like this is something else , and so close to Damascus as well , '' said the diplomat , adding that fighting in recent weeks involving army deserters in the town of Rastan and the city of Homs resembled a localized civil war . 
`` It 's not a nationwide civil war , but in very specific locations , it is looking like that , '' said the diplomat . 
The Free Syrian Army was set up by deserters and is led by Colonel Riad al-Asaad , who is based in southern Turkey . 
It announced this week that it had formed a `` temporary military council '' of nine defecting officers , led by Asaad . 
The statement said the Syrian Free Army aimed to `` bring down the regime and protect citizens from the repression ... and prevent chaos as soon as the regime falls , '' adding that it would form a military court to try `` members of the regime who are proven to have been involved in killing operations . '' 
Syrian television showed thousands of Assad 's supporters rallying in Damascus and Latakia to mark the day his father Hafez al-Assad seized power in 1970 . 
It said the crowds were also voicing their rejection of the Arab League 's decision . 
`` God , Syria , Bashar , that 's all ! '' 
demonstrators shouted in central Damascus after turning out in heavy rain to wave flags and posters of the president . 
Two large posters of Assad and his father hung from a building . 
`` Neither rain nor sanctions will stop us expressing our nationalism , '' they said , according to the television report . 
The Arab League has stopped short of calling for Assad 's departure or proposing any Libya-style military intervention , but its ostracism of Syria is a blow to a country whose ruling Baath party puts Arab nationalism at the center of its credo . 
Syrian authorities have banned most independent media . 
They blame the unrest on `` armed terrorist gangs '' and foreign-backed militants who they say have killed 1,100 soldiers and police . 
Hundreds of people have been killed this month , one of the bloodiest periods of the revolt . 
Syria says it remains committed to the Arab peace plan , which calls for the withdrawal of troops from urban areas , the release of prisoners and a dialogue with the opposition . 
State media said more than 1,000 prisoners , including prominent dissident Kamal Labwani , were freed on Tuesday . 
But human rights campaigners say tens of thousands have been detained since anti-Assad protests began . 
-LRB- Additional reporting Souhail Karam in Rabat , Dominic Evans in Beirut , John Irish in Paris , Mahmoud Habboush in Dubai and Ramin Mostafavi in Tehran ; Writing by Alistair Lyon ; Editing by Tim Pearce and Eric Walsh -RRB- An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


LONDON | Fri Nov 18 , 2011 5:08 pm EST LONDON -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - Growing Syrian army defections do not yet pose a mortal threat to President Bashar al-Assad , but outside support could turn the dissidents into a national insurgency able to harass and exhaust his military . 
As the country apparently slides further toward civil war , analysts say Assad will seek to deny nascent armed opposition groups sufficient territory to organize a guerrilla campaign . 
His task will be the easier if the former soldiers are unable to obtain sustained expert help from abroad in organizing their logistics and training recruits . 
It is not yet clear if the defectors have forged such a network , either from the Syrian diaspora or foreign powers . 
`` If they get help from Turkey or certain Arab countries it could take maybe 5 , 6 or 8 months to win against the regime , '' British-based opposition activist Samer Afndi told Reuters . 
`` If no help will come , it will take a longer time , '' said Afndi , a former Syrian state security official . 
He said morale among many in the opposition was boosted by a raid by army defectors on an airforce intelligence complex in Harasta near Damascus on Wednesday that had killed or wounded 20 policemen . 
It was the first of its kind in an eight-month revolt against Assad 's rule by protesters inspired by uprisings which toppled the leaders of Tunisia , Egypt and Libya . 
But Afndi said the guerrillas , estimated by some analysts at several thousand , needed safe liberated areas in which to train and obtain logistical support . 
`` In truth , the armed insurgency is not strong enough to significantly threaten the regime at present , '' Alan Fraser , Middle East analyst for risk consultancy AKE , told Reuters . 
`` However , with support from elsewhere , it may become more organized and capable of inflicting damage . '' 
`` The turning point will come when it has the ability to control ground in the face of an regime counter-offensive . '' 
The exact strength of the dissident soldiers is not known and Syria 's ban on most foreign media makes it hard to verify events on the ground . 
Colonel Riad al-As ` aad of the Free Syrian Army told Reuters in Turkey last month that 10-15 ,000 soldiers , out of the roughly 200,000-strong military , had defected all over the country and that desertions were continuing every day . 
Syria 's military is controlled by the president 's brother Maher and members of their minority Alawite sect , while the army is comprised mostly of Sunni Muslims , who also form the majority of Syria 's population . 
Diplomatically Assad looks increasingly isolated , a factor that may eventually affect the military equation on the ground . 
The Arab League agreed on Saturday to start talks with Syrian dissidents after a majority of its 22 members voted to suspend Syria 's membership of the pan-Arab body from Wednesday over its violent response to protests . 
REGIONAL POWERS MAY GET SUCKED IN The rebellion has been met by a military crackdown that has killed more than 3,500 people , according to a U.N. count . 
Syria blames the violence on foreign-backed armed groups who it says have killed more than 1,100 soldiers and police . 
In a note to clients , London 's Exclusive Analysis consultancy said the attack in Harasta had likely dealt a psychological blow to the political elite around Assad . 
`` Further attacks of this kind would likely encourage further defections in the Syrian Army , sensing that it might be on a losing side . 
`` Along with implied Turkish support for armed opposition , this suggests that the Assad government will struggle to contain protests in major cities in the 3-6 month outlook and increases the risk of a civil war beyond that timeframe . 
A Syria expert at Exclusive Analysis who declined to be identified due to the sensitivity of the topic said he expected `` a steady erosion of the power of the Syrian army and a steady limiting of the territory that it can access . '' 
`` The way it 's heading is more toward full scale civil war which draws in the intervention of regional actors . '' 
But Shashank Joshi , an associate fellow at Britain 's Royal United Services Institute , told Reuters `` the army has a lot left in it . 
It still has enough elite units and has enough size and capability to still mount severe violence . '' 
`` The question is , the bits that it ca n't hold , are they ever going to be retaken by the government ? 
And my suspicion is , they are not , '' he said , referring to areas around the southern city of Deraa and the central city of Homs . 
Joshi expects `` a stalemate '' between the two sides where the government can not retake land it has lost but the insurgents can not challenge the army in areas they would like to take . 
-LRB- Reporting by William Maclean ; Editing by Jon Hemming -RRB- An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


WASHINGTON | Fri Nov 18 , 2011 5:34 pm EST WASHINGTON -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said on Friday Syria could slide into civil war but she did not foresee the global community intervening in the same way it did in Libya . 
`` I think there could be a civil war with a very determined and well-armed and eventually well-financed opposition that is , if not directed by , certainly influenced by defectors from the army , '' Clinton told NBC news in an interview in Indonesia , where she was attending a regional summit . 
`` We 're already seeing that , something that we hate to see because we are in favor of a peaceful protest and a nonviolent opposition , '' she said . 
Clinton said , however , that she saw no prospect for the kind of coordinated international intervention that occurred in Libya , where a NATO-led coalition won a U.N. mandate to mount air strikes in support of rebels fighting Muammar Gaddafi . 
`` There is no appetite for that kind of action vis-a-vis Syria , '' Clinton said , pointing to regional moves by the Arab League and Turkey as key to persuading Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to halt the violence against civilians . 
The United States and the European Union have both imposed a series of targeted sanctions against Damascus . 
But U.N. sanctions are seen as unlikely given opposition from Russia and China , which last month vetoed a draft Security Council resolution condemning Syria . 
The Arab League has suspended Syria and set a Saturday deadline for it to comply with the Arab peace plan , which entails a military pullout from around restive cities and towns , threatening sanctions unless Assad acts to halt the violence . 
Clinton told CBS in a separate interview that it was clear Assad 's days were numbered . 
`` Look , Assad 's going to be gone ; it 's just a question of time . 
What we hope is that they avoid a civil war , that they avoid greater bloodshed , that they make the changes that they should have been making all along . 
And we think the Arab League pressure is probably the most effective pressure , '' she said . 
We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion , anecdotes , links and data . 
Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters . 
They did it in tunisia , libya , egypt and they are looking to join in a coalition with turkey and be against Israel . 
Not good for our only Ally in the middle east and not good for the US . 
As long as the United States is smack dab in the middle of it I 'm all for it . 
I thought she meant here in the US . 
Nov 18 , 2011 8:38 pm EST -- Report as abuse This discussion is now closed . 
We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication . 
An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


Demonstrators protest against Syria 's President Bashar al-Assad after Friday prayers in Homs November 18 , 2011 . 
AMMAN | Fri Nov 18 , 2011 6:11 pm EST AMMAN -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - Syria is seeking changes to a planned mission to monitor its implementation of an Arab League peace initiative , the group 's chief said on Friday , on the eve of a deadline for Damascus to take steps to end months of bloodshed . 
Activists said security forces killed 11 people after weekly prayers , in the latest violence in the crackdown on protests against President Bashar al-Assad , which the United Nations says has killed at least 3,500 people since March . 
The Arab League has suspended Syria and set the Saturday deadline for it to comply with the Arab peace plan , which entails a military pullout from around restive areas , threatening sanctions unless Assad acts to halt the violence . 
Arab League Secretary-General Nabil Elaraby said the organization was studying a letter from Syria which `` included amendments to the draft protocol regarding the legal status and duties of the monitoring mission of the Arab League to Syria . '' 
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said he doubted Syria would respond positively to the Arab League initiative . 
But he said any international intervention must not be unilateral and should be mandated by the United Nations . 
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton feared the country could slide into civil war . 
`` I think there could be a civil war with a very determined and well-armed and eventually well-financed opposition that is , if not directed by , certainly influenced by defectors from the army , '' she told NBC news in Indonesia , where she was attending a regional summit . 
However , she did not foresee the global community intervening in the same way as it did in Libya . 
`` There is no appetite for that kind of action vis-a-vis Syria , '' she said , pointing to moves by the Arab League and Turkey . 
Juppe , speaking alongside Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmed Davutoglu , said France was ready to work with the Syrian opposition and that tougher sanctions were needed on Damascus . 
British Foreign Secretary William Hague will meet Syrian opposition representatives in London next week in what officials characterized as an intensification of contact with Assad opponents . 
A Foreign Office source said Britain was `` a long way off '' from recognizing the Syrian National Council or Syrian opposition groups as a government-in-waiting or as the legitimate alternative to Assad . 
`` What they have to do is come together and form a coherent unified vision of the Syria they want of the future , particularly around the transition period and how to get there , '' the source said . 
Sanctions already imposed by the European Union and the United States are starting to bite : On Friday , French oil major Total said Syria had halted payments for its oil production activities . 
Syria 's oil exports , worth $ 400 million a month , a vital source of government earnings , have come to a standstill . 
But , at the end of a week in which army deserters attacked an intelligence building near Damascus and waged a deadly battle with Assad 's forces , Juppe appeared to call on the opposition not to use army defectors to mount attacks . 
`` We are making a call to the Syrian opposition . 
To avoid a civil war , we hope that the army will not be mobilized . 
This would be a catastrophe , '' Juppe said . 
Hundreds of people have been killed in Syria , including civilians , army deserters and forces loyal to Assad , since it agreed on November 2 to withdraw troops from urban areas and release political prisoners under an Arab League initiative . 
Syria says it is trying to implement the deal but has called on neighboring countries to do more to stem a flow of arms to the opposition and end what it says is a media campaign of incitement against Syrian authorities . 
On Friday activists said security forces shot dead at least 11 people and wounded dozens when they fired to disperse protests in the cities of Deraa , Homs , Hama and the Damascus suburb of Erbin . 
Syria 's state news agency said two members of the security forces were killed and a third was seriously wounded when a bomb exploded in the province of Hama . 
Two others were wounded by gunfire in Deraa , it said . 
Syria has barred most independent journalists from the country , making it difficult to verify reports from activists or officials . 
Authorities blame the violence on foreign-backed armed groups who they say have killed 1,100 soldiers and police . 
Protesters called on foreign countries to expel Syrian ambassadors in support of the opposition . 
`` Whoever fears God should expel the Syrian ambassador '' read a banner at a demonstration in the southern province of Deraa , where the uprising erupted in March . 
In the eastern province of Hasaka , protesters shouted , `` Why are you afraid ? 
God is with us ! '' 
In Homs and Hama , young men dancing arm in arm chanted `` The Free Army is our army , '' referring to army deserters who have waged an escalating campaign of attacks on state targets . 
Opposition sources said on Wednesday the Free Syrian Army had killed or wounded 20 security police in an assault on an Air Force Intelligence complex on the outskirts of Damascus , the first of its kind in the revolt against Assad . 
Russia , which opposed Western efforts to secure a Security Council resolution condemning Syria which could have led to U.N. sanctions on Damascus , said the raid showed that the conflict in Syria was `` similar to real civil war . '' 
France , Britain and Germany plan to ask the U.N. General Assembly 's human rights committee to approve a resolution condemning the violence in Syria , before putting the non-binding measure to a vote in an assembly plenary session . 
Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin called on Friday for a cautious response from the international community . 
`` We are ready to work with the international community but we call for restraint and caution , '' Putin told reporters , asked whether Russia will support calls for Assad to resign or back a U.N. resolution condemning his actions . 
Meeting his French counterpart Francois Fillon in Moscow , Putin chided France for meddling in the affairs of other nations and reiterated a warning against military intervention . 
Fillon said that faced with an increasingly `` dramatic '' situation in Syria , France was `` more than ever determined to take action '' against a president `` who has lost all legitimacy in our eyes by firing on his own people . '' 
Iran 's ambassador to Lebanon said growing international pressure would not topple Syria 's government . 
`` These threats will not yield any results , '' Ghadanfar Roken Abadi said on Friday . 
`` Intensifying these threats ... only increases our enthusiasm for popular unity with Syria . '' 
Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters . 
More frequently than not the Western media campaign against the government of President Bashar Al-Assad quotes various opposition groups regarding the number of people killed and that the army killed them . 
There is a very radical element in the opposition that will kill their fellow citizens and members of the police and army charged with protecting the citizens of Syria . 
Why should the government of Syria give in to a small radical minority who is calling for its overthrow when the majority wants to keep the government and are willing to give it time to implement reforms ? 
This scant radical minority is being armed , funded and egged on by extreme Islamic groups and Gulf Arabs as well as Western governments -LRB- Turkey included -RRB- , who want to see the Arab opposition to Israel and the tyrannical attitude to the Palestinians and neighboring Arab countries diluted . 
Those vehemently opposed to the Assad government -LRB- I reject calling them a `` regime '' -RRB- both in the West and Arab Gulf have never forced the opposition to meet with the government for discussions . 
Instead they have allowed opposition exile groups to meet in Turkey to plan against the Government . 
How would the Turkish government react if Syria permitted the PKK to convene a resistance group in Syria ? 
What gives France the right to interfere in Syrian domestic politics and demand Assad 's ouster ? 
They are no longer the colonial power of the land . 
It appears to me that the West is attempting to compartmentalize the world and in the Middle East that means appointing Turkey as the overlord to return the region to Ottoman style rule . 
This will be a tragedy for democratic principles and freedoms for Syrians . 
This will especially affect the Christian population who has been allowed to witness freely in the country free from oppression and limit on their role in civil society . 
The opposition can not expect to win through violence and destruction . 
Why is not President Bashar Al Assad given a chance to institute constitutional and civil reform ? 
Bahrain has committed atrocities in greater proportion to Syria but is allowed to slide because of its alliance with the West and Saudi Arabia . 
Where is the West to be so vehement and vocal in its reaction to the situation in Yemen ? 
Where is the West to question why free elections in Qatar will take 2-years while they expect the Syrian Government to turn things around in a matter of months ? 
Where is the mighty , righteous and `` principled '' West to decry the repression in Saudi Arabia ? 
Because of its relationship with Iran ? 
I am attempting to find one truth in the Post by RJNYC . 
It is the Arab Nations that are reporting the atrocities of the Al-Assad Government , not just the West . 
Are you calling them Liars ? 
Everyday we see the Army continuing their assault on a majority-led democratic reform bloodbath on their own people . 
I sympathize with those who do not know what Freedom means and ask them to give it a chance in Syria . 
Arab Nations have asked Al-Assad to put away the guns used on the population . 
His resistance will keep him in power . 
A power oppressing the majority of Syrian citizens . 
Their own Army is in a contradiction of right . 
Not Syria , Al-Assad 's country . 
SOOO reminiscent of Nazi Germany ! 
It 's mind boggling that people -LRB- troops -RRB- will BLINDLY follow the orders of a despot ! 
`` Somethings rotten in Denmark '' ... ... . . 
This discussion is now closed . 
We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication . 
An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


LONDON | Sat Nov 19 , 2011 6:17 pm EST LONDON -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - Syrian President Bashar al-Assad said the crackdown on anti-government unrest in his country would continue in the face of pressure from the Arab League to end it , according to an interview published late on Saturday . 
`` The conflict will continue and the pressure to subjugate Syria will continue , '' he told Britain 's Sunday Times newspaper . 
`` Syria will not bow down . '' 
The Arab League , a powerful political group of Arab states , set a deadline on Saturday for Syria to comply with a peace plan , entailing a military pullout from around restive areas , and threatened sanctions if Assad failed to halt the violence . 
However , activists from the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said 12 civilians were killed in security force raids on Saturday while two army defectors died when they clashed with the Syrian army in Homs , which has become a center of armed revolt against more than 40 years of Assad family rule . 
Assad has come under growing international pressure to stop the crackdown and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton on Friday expressed fear the country could be slipping into civil war . 
Clinton said the international community was reluctant to intervene as it had in Libya and Assad again repeated his assertion that any Western military action taken against Syria would create an `` earthquake '' across the Middle East . 
`` If they are logical , rational and realistic , they should n't do it because the repercussions are very dire . 
Military intervention will destabilize the region as a whole , and all countries will be affected , '' he said . 
The Sunday Times said Assad had promised to personally fight and die to resist foreign forces . 
Assad also vowed to prevent further attacks by the Free Syrian Army , which opposition sources said had killed or wounded at least 20 security police in an assault on an Air Force Intelligence Complex near Damascus two days ago . 
`` The only way is to search for the armed people , chase the armed gangs , prevent the entry of arms and weapons from neighboring countries , prevent sabotage and enforce law and order , '' he told the paper . 
-LRB- Reporting by Michael Holden ; editing by Andrew Roche -RRB- An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


LONDON | Sat Nov 19 , 2011 11:33 pm EST LONDON -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - Syrian President Bashar al-Assad was quoted on Saturday as saying he would press on with a crackdown against anti-government unrest in his country despite increased pressure from the Arab League to end it . 
`` The conflict will continue and the pressure to subjugate Syria will continue , '' he told Britain 's Sunday Times newspaper . 
`` However , I assure you that Syria will not bow down and that it will continue to resist the pressure being imposed on it . '' 
In video footage on the newspaper 's website , Assad said there would be elections in February or March when Syrians would vote for a parliament to create a new constitution and that would include provision for a presidential ballot `` That constitution will set the basis of how to elect a president , if they need a president or do n't need him , '' he said . 
`` They have the elections , they can participate in it . 
The ballot boxes will decide who should be president . '' 
The Arab League , a powerful political group of Arab states , set a deadline of Saturday for Syria to comply with a peace plan , involving a military pullout from around restive areas , and threatened sanctions if Assad failed to halt the violence . 
However , activists from the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said 12 civilians were killed in raids by government forces on Saturday while two army defectors died when they clashed with the army in Homs , which has become a center of armed revolt against more than 40 years of Assad family rule . 
Asked if his forces had been too aggressive , Assad told the newspaper mistakes had been made but these were the fault of individuals , not the state . 
`` We , as a state , do not have a policy to be cruel with citizens , '' he said . 
The United Nations says 3,500 people have been killed during the crackdown on the protests which began in March , but Assad disputed this and put the number killed at 619 . 
He told the paper that 800 government forces had been killed . 
`` My role as president -- this is my daily obsession now -- is to know how to stop this bloodshed caused by armed terrorist acts that are hitting some areas , '' he said . 
Syria has come under growing international pressure to stop the crackdown . 
Britain , a strong critic of Damascus , said on Friday senior figures including Foreign Secretary William Hague would meet Syrian opposition representatives in London next week . 
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has expressed fear that Syria could be slipping into civil war but said the international community was reluctant to intervene as it had in Libya . 
Assad said the Arab League 's intervention could provide a pretext for Western military action and repeated a past statement that such a move against Syria would create an `` earthquake '' across the Middle East . 
`` If they are logical , rational and realistic , they should n't do it because the repercussions are very dire . 
Military intervention will destabilize the region as a whole , and all countries will be affected , '' he told the Sunday Times . 
The newspaper said Assad had promised to personally fight and die to resist foreign forces . 
Assad also vowed to prevent further attacks by the Free Syrian Army , which opposition sources said had killed or wounded at least 20 security police in an assault on an Air Force Intelligence Complex near Damascus two days ago . 
`` The only way is to search for the armed people , chase the armed gangs , prevent the entry of arms and weapons from neighboring countries , prevent sabotage and enforce law and order , '' he told the paper . 
-LRB- Reporting by Michael Holden ; editing by Andrew Roche and Ralph Gowling -RRB- An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


ISTANBUL | Sat Nov 19 , 2011 3:08 pm EST ISTANBUL -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - Turkish newspapers said on Saturday Ankara had contingency plans to create no-fly or buffer zones to protect civilians in neighboring Syria from security forces there if the bloodshed worsens . 
Turkey opposes unilateral steps or intervention aimed at `` regime change '' in Syria , the reports said , but it has not ruled out the possibility of more extensive military action if security forces began committing large-scale massacres . 
The reports , based on a briefing by Turkish officials to selected journalists , came on the day of an Arab League deadline for President Bashar al-Assad 's government to end its repression of anti-government unrest and comply with a peace plan . 
`` It 's almost certain that Bashar al-Assad 's regime is going down , all the assessments are made based on this assumption . 
Foreign Ministry sources say that the sooner the regime goes down , the better for Turkey , '' columnist Sedat Ergin wrote in Hurriyet newspaper . 
`` It is out of the question that Turkey carries out a military intervention to change the regime . 
However , it takes a flexible stance on opposition groups running activities in Turkey . '' 
Several thousand Syrians have fled to Turkey in the wake of the repression launched after pro-democracy protests erupted in March . 
Among them were soldiers who say they deserted rather than shoot their own people , and are now part of the armed resistance against Assad 's forces . 
Turkey , along with other powers , fear that if Syria slips into civil war it would ignite sectarian and ethnic conflict that could spread elsewhere in the region . 
Ruled by the Assad family for more than 40 years , Syria 's power circle is based around the Baath party and members of the minority Alawite sect to which the Assad family belong . 
The Radikal newspaper 's columnist Murat Yetkin quoted one of the Turkish officials saying : `` We believe that with each day that passes under the Assad regime , the threat to stability increases . 
We believe stability in Syria and in the region will only be possible again under a democratic government . '' 
The Arab League , and non-Arab Turkey , have threatened economic sanctions unless bloodshed stops . 
And Turkish officials told the journalists they expected Assad 's government to implode under popular pressure . 
Turkey wants to avoid a massive influx of people across the border , having been inundated by 500,000 people from Iraq during the 1991 Gulf War . 
Radikal 's Yetkin said the Turkish military could establish a buffer zone if the Syrian army advanced on a city , like Aleppo , close to the Turkish border . 
Columnist Asli Aydintasbas of Milliyet newspaper wrote : `` Foreign ministry sources added that Turkey could set up a no-fly buffer zone within Syria if Syrians fleeing the army create a mass wave of migration to Turkey . 
`` A more extensive military intervention could come on the table only if Syrian regime starts a large-scale massacre in a big city such as Aleppo or Damascus , '' Aydintasbas added . 
`` Ankara could take a role in a military intervention against Syria only with the international community and following a U.N. Security Council decision . '' 
Having once cultivated Assad 's friendship , Turkey turned sharply critical during the eight-month-old uprising , as Damascus repeatedly ignored advice to end the violence and make reforms demanded by the people . 
Attacks on their diplomatic missions in Damascus last weekend , prompted non-Arab Turkey and Arab governments to escalate pressure on Assad . 
Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan said on Saturday Syria was responsible for the breakdown in the relationship . 
`` Unfortunately , the Syrian regime was reluctant and insincere in carrying out reforms it had promised to . 
Furthermore , they wanted to quash the opposition through inhumane methods , by shedding blood , '' he told a business forum . 
`` If there 's a policy change , it 's not Turkey 's but Syria 's change of policy . 
Syria has not kept the promises it made , neither to the Arab League nor the world , '' he said . 
`` Its actions have not been sincere and trustworthy . '' 


Arab League rejects Syrian demand to change peace plan Sunday saw a new large rally in Damascus in support of President Assad The Arab League has rejected a demand by Syria to alter its plan for ending the country 's conflict , which has reportedly left at least 3,500 dead . 
It dismissed Syria 's demand to amend its proposal for a 500-strong observer mission to be sent to the country . 
The Arab League 's deadline for Syria to end its crackdown passed overnight with no sign of violence abating . 
President Bashar al-Assad has said his country will not bow to `` pressure '' and predicted the conflict would continue . 
Speaking to the UK 's Sunday Times , he said the unity and stability of Syria were at stake . 
Despite accusing the Arab League of bias and of acting as a stalking horse for the Western powers , the Syrian foreign minister did not close the door on the Arab initiative . 
He said Damascus would reply with a list of queries before deciding whether to sign a protocol allowing the pan-Arab body to deploy observers in the country . 
In its statement a few hours earlier , the league ruled out proposed Syrian changes , which it said would radically alter the nature of the mission . 
But it reiterated its own commitment to resolving the Syrian crisis within an Arab framework . 
So in theory a last-minute deal can not be ruled out . 
But time is running short . 
The League announced that an emergency meeting of Arab foreign ministers would be held in Cairo on Thursday to follow up on Syria . 
If Damascus can not find a way of complying seriously with the Arab initiative by then , it could face tougher sanctions from the League - and renewed pressure for hostile moves at the UN Security Council . 
The Arab League plan , seen by the world as the best hope for resolving the conflict peacefully , seems to have crashed in flames , the BBC 's Jim Muir reports . 
On Sunday , there were reports of a grenade attack on a building of the ruling party in the capital Damascus . 
If confirmed , it would be the first such attack reported inside the capital since the uprising began in March . 
It was claimed by the Free Syrian Army , a group of military defectors . 
At least 27 people were killed on Saturday , according to opposition activists , including four government intelligence agents whose car was ambushed in Hama by gunmen believed to be army defectors . 
Foreign journalists are unable to move around Syria freely , making it difficult to verify reports . 
The Arab League 's plan has been the focus of efforts to find a diplomatic solution and comes as key international players such as Russia and the US warned of the danger of civil war in Syria . 
In a statement on Sunday , the Arab League said : `` It was agreed that the amendments and appendices proposed by the Syrian side affect the core of the document and would radically change the nature of the mission which is to oversee the implementation of the Arab plan to end the crisis in Syria and protect Syrian civilians . '' 
Syria 's Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem : `` We behaved in a positive manner '' Reacting to the statement , Syrian Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem reiterated that Damascus has accepted the Arab League plan - with what he stated were minor amendments designed to safeguard Syrian sovereignty . 
Speaking to reporters in Damascus , Mr Muallem said `` slow and steady '' discussions were needed and warned against `` haste and overreaction '' . 
He also criticised the league , saying `` parts of the Arab world '' were using the organization as a `` tool '' to involve UN Security Council in the crisis . 
A Western-backed draft resolution condemning Syria 's crackdown has been vetoed in the Security Council by China and Russia . 
Tensions between the Arab League and Syria have increased as violence has escalated in the country . 
Allow foreign journalists to work freely Last weekend the league suspended Syria 's membership after it failed to honor the terms of its peace plan . 
Syria said it had agreed to the plan in principle , but was seeking amendments . 
Reports said it wanted to reduce the number of observers from 500 to 40 . 
Critics accused Damascus of stalling for time . 
Mr Assad told the Sunday Times : `` The conflict will continue and the pressure to subjugate Syria will continue . '' 
`` However , I assure you that Syria will not bow down and that it will continue to resist the pressure being imposed on it . '' 
Mr Assad appeared to dismiss the Arab League plan , the BBC 's Jim Muir reports from Beirut . 
The Syrian president said it was designed to show that the Arabs were divided , and to prepare the way for outside military intervention which , he repeated , would have dire consequences for the whole region . 
Mr Assad 's supporters took to the streets of Damascus again on Sunday , carrying a giant portrait of Mr Assad . 
Arab League foreign ministers are to meet again on Thursday to discuss Syria . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Demonstrators against Syria 's President Bashar al-Assad take part in a march after Friday prayers in Kafranbel near Adlb November 18 , 2011 . 
The banner -LRB- top L -RRB- reads , '' Tell the killer he will meet the fate of those he kills '' . 
AMMAN | Sun Nov 20 , 2011 11:54 am EST AMMAN -LRB- Reuters -RRB- - The Arab League said on Sunday it had rebuffed a request by Damascus to amend plans for a 500-strong monitoring mission to Syria , after President Bashar al-Assad vowed to continue his crackdown and said he would not surrender to outside pressure . 
Within hours of Assad ignoring a deadline to halt repression of protesters , residents said two rocket-propelled grenades hit a major ruling party building in Damascus on Sunday , the first such reported attack by insurgents inside the capital . 
Confronted since March by street demonstrations against 41 years of rule by his family , Assad said he had no choice but to pursue his crackdown on unrest because his foes were armed . 
`` The conflict will continue and the pressure to subjugate Syria will continue . 
Syria will not bow down , '' he told Britain 's Sunday Times newspaper . 
Arab League Secretary General Nabil Elaraby rejected Syria 's request to alter a plan for the fact-finding mission -- which would include military personnel and human rights experts -- in a letter to Syria 's foreign minister . 
`` The additions requested by the Syrian counterpart affect the heart of the protocol and fundamentally change the nature of the mission , '' said the letter , released by the Arab League . 
Syria 's Foreign Minister Walid al-Moualem said the plan as it stood compromised the country 's sovereignty but Damascus had not rejected the mission Moualem said the proposed mission has `` pervasive jurisdiction that reaches the level of ... violating Syrian sovereignty '' and said he would send the Arab League a letter with questions about its role . 
`` We will reply to the Arab League secretary general by responsibly presenting a number of queries , '' he told a televised news conference in the Syrian capital . 
The Cairo-based League had given Damascus three days from a meeting on November 16 to abide by a deal to withdraw military forces from restive cities , start talks between the government and opposition and pave the way for an observer team . 
It was not immediately clear what action the Arab League would take after the deadline passed unheeded by Damascus . 
The pan-Arab body had threatened sanctions for non-compliance , and it suspended Syria 's membership in a surprise move last week . 
NO NEW TALKS IN SIGHT `` Although the time-frame has ended , there have been no meetings or calls for meetings except at the level of delegations -LRB- to the League -RRB- , '' a representative of one Arab state at the League told Reuters . 
In a statement , the League said it remained committed to a peaceful , Arab-engineered solution to the Syrian upheaval , touched off by other Arab popular revolts that have overthrown the autocratic leaders of Egypt , Tunisia and Libya this year . 
Syrian authorities blame the violence on foreign-backed armed groups which they say have killed some 1,100 soldiers and police . 
By a United Nations account , more than 3,500 people , mostly civilians , have been killed in the unrest . 
Assad signaled no retreat from his iron fist policy in a video released after his forces killed 17 more protesters on Saturday . 
`` The only way is to search for the armed people , chase the armed gangs , prevent the entry of arms and weapons from neighboring countries , prevent sabotage and enforce law and order , '' he said in footage published on the Sunday Times website . 
On Sunday , the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said troops manning roadblocks in Homs fired on residential areas and wounded three protesters . 
In the nearby town of Talbiseh , security forces delivered the bodies of two men arrested last month and in Idlib another two civilians were killed in military operations , the British-based group said . 
Assad said there would be elections in February or March when Syrians would vote for a parliament to create a new constitution and that would include provision for a presidential ballot . 
The Syrian Free Army , comprising army defectors and based in neighboring Turkey , claimed responsibility for the attack on the Baath Party building in Damascus . 
There was no independent verification of the claim and Moualem denied that any attack had taken place . 
But a witness said security police blocked off the square where the building is located and reported seeing smoke rising from it and fire trucks in the area . 
`` The attack was just before dawn and the building was mostly empty . 
It seems to have been intended as a message to the regime , '' he said . 
Syrian authorities have barred most independent journalists from entering the country during the revolt , making it difficult to verify accounts from activists and officials . 
It was the second reported hit on a high profile target in a week , underscoring a growing opposition challenge to Assad - who blames `` armed terrorist acts '' for the unrest - from a nascent insurgency alongside mostly peaceful protests that have persisted despite the intensifying crackdown . 
Assad , who inherited power from his father in 2000 , is a member of the Alawite minority community , an offshoot of Shi'ite Islam that dominates the state , the army and security apparatus in the majority Sunni Muslim country of 20 million . 
The Syrian Free Army said the grenade attack was a response to the refusal of Damascus to release tens of thousands of political prisoners and return troops to barracks , as called for by the plan agreed between the Arab League and Damascus . 
Non-Arab Turkey , once an ally of Assad , is also taking an increasingly tough attitude to Damascus . 
Turkish newspapers said on Saturday Ankara had contingency plans to create no-fly or buffer zones to protect civilians in neighboring Syria if the bloodshed worsens . 
`` It 's almost certain that Bashar al-Assad 's regime is going down , all the assessments are made based on this assumption . 
Foreign Ministry sources say that the sooner the regime goes down , the better for Turkey , '' one Turkish paper reported . 
Activists in the central city of Homs said the body of Farzat Jarban , an activist who had been filming and broadcasting pro-democracy rallies there , was found dumped near a private hospital on Saturday with two bullet wounds . 
`` Security police are no longer just shooting protesters , they are targeting activists when they least suspect it , such as when they take their children to school , '' said a doctor from Homs who has fled to Jordan . 
Tanks and troops deployed in Homs after large anti-Assad protests six months ago . 
The authorities say they have since arrested tens of `` terrorists '' in the city who have been killing civilians and planting bombs in public places . 
Moualem said the West and some Arab countries were ignoring the actions of armed gangs in Syria who had been killing people `` according to their identity cards , '' referring to growing reports of sectarian killings between majority Sunni Muslims and Assad 's Alawite community in Homs . 
But he dismissed fears that the country might be heading toward civil conflict . 
`` There will not be a civil war , however hard they try to ignite it . '' 
Dissident colonel Riad al-Asaad , organizing defectors in Syria from his new base in southern Turkey , denied government allegations that adjacent states were allowing arms smuggling into Syria . 
`` Not a single bullet '' had been smuggled from abroad , he told al Jazeera television . 
Weapons were brought by defectors , obtained in raids on the regular army or bought from arms dealers inside Syria , he said . 
Asaad said no foreign military intervention was needed other than providing a no-fly zone and weapons supplies , and that more deserters would swell his Free Syrian Army 's ranks if there were protected zones to which they could flee . 
`` Soldiers and officers in the army are waiting for the right opportunity , '' he told al Jazeera . 
Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters . 
Syria rebuffs Arab League plan . 
Boy Syria is in real trouble now . 
That Arab League is one of the toughest paper tigers around you know . 
This discussion is now closed . 
We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication . 
An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution A connected approach to governance , risk and compliance Our next generation legal research platform 


Anti-government demonstrations have continued despite a violent crackdown The Arab League 's decision to impose economic sanctions on Syria in punishment for its crackdown on anti-government protests has generated extensive comment on both conventional and social media platforms . 
Arab press commentators were generally supportive of the decision , and the story was the top headline in three pan-Arab newspapers , with the Saudi-owned Al-Hayat describing the sanctions as an `` Arab siege '' on the Syrian regime . 
A Syrian pro-government daily dismissed the plan as a conspiracy against Damascus . 
Comment from Iran was scarce , with only a program on Iran 's Arabic-language Al-Alam TV channel observed to be discussing the story on Sunday . 
Syria 's Tishrin newspaper portrayed Arab League leaders as `` oil emirs '' who had been trying to destabilise Syria since 2006 in punishment for its support for Hezbollah in the war with Israel . 
`` One can not rule out that these stances are principally American and Israeli . 
They are implementing US-Israeli agendas , '' it said . 
Similar language was used by Syrian Foreign Minister Walid al-Moualem on Twitter . 
He said the sanctions will only make Syrians `` more resilient to malicious conspiracy '' . 
Mr Moualem had returned to the micro-blogging site after his account was hacked over the weekend and used to falsely announce the resignation of President Bashar al-Assad . 
London-based pan-Arab newspapers viewed the sanctions as the first step of a process to transfer the crisis to the international community . 
In an editorial entitled `` Arabising the crisis in preparation for internationalising it '' , Al-Quds al-Arabi hailed the cooperation between Arab states against Syria , but expressed concern that the impact on the regime would be limited . 
Al-Sharq al-Awsat also questioned the effectiveness of the sanctions , saying they would `` not deter Al-Assad 's regime nor will they topple it '' . 
It called for the `` battle '' to be transferred to the UN Security Council . 
Saudi Arabia 's Al-Watan chose to emphasise that the sanctions were not aimed at ordinary citizens `` but at a regime which refuses to listen to the voice of reason and conscience '' . 
Meanwhile the Saudi paper Al-Jazirah highlighted the `` strong and active participation of Turkey '' in efforts to resolve the Syrian crisis , which demonstrated the `` natural evolution '' of Ankara 's standing in world affairs . 
The Oman daily newspaper took a similar line , describing the co-ordination between the Arab League and Turkey as `` remarkable '' . 
Lebanon 's Al-Mustaqbal asked how President Assad can `` dream of leading the Syrian people whom he is slaughtering every day '' . 
Elsewhere in the Arab world , commentators looked to the future , with some fearing that the ongoing crisis could destabilise Syria and the region . 
Jordan 's Al-Dustur said the decision `` paves the way for foreign intervention which means tearing apart the state and threatening its unity , as well as exposing the security and stability of the whole of the region to danger . '' 
This theme was echoed in a commentary in the United Arab Emirates ' Al-Ittihad newspaper , which warned of a change to `` the regional balance of power stretching from the Gulf , Iran to Lebanon '' . 
A commentary in Turkey 's Vatan said the Assad regime did `` not have much time left '' , which poses a problem to its `` closest ally '' Iran . 
Milliyet pointed to a global balance-of-power issue which may see the US using the Arab Spring as an `` excuse further to strengthen its position in the Middle East '' . 
It said this should be of concern to Russia , which has supported both Syria and Iran , and places Turkey in an awkward position because of its `` unhesitant '' stance on the crisis . 
Syrian Twitter users were generally observed to be calling for more action from the Arab League . 
Addressing the League , prominent Deraa-based user @Taimhawi wrote : `` Your sanctions wo n't stop bloodshed , people want : a no-fly zone , isolated zone , expel ambassadors , support Free Syrian Army . '' 
Damascus-based @Sub7ei , a user with over 900 followers , took a similar line , calling on the League to take a firmer position through `` recognition of the National Council and explicitly inviting Assad to step down '' . 
Similar sentiments were conveyed in a cartoon posted to the Jordan-based satirical website Mahjoob which was linked to by a number of Twitter users . 
In the image , a meat-cleaver-wielding Assad is depicted butchering a corpse while Arab League delegates look on passively . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria : The view from next door As Syria faces growing economic sanctions , diplomatic isolation and condemnation over what the United Nations calls `` gross human rights violations '' for its crackdown on protesters , the BBC 's Jim Muir considers how the country 's immediate neighbors are reacting and how the outcome to the crisis may affect them . 
Nobody is watching events in Syria more closely than the Lebanese , because none of Syria 's other neighbors stands to be affected as profoundly as Lebanon by what turn the crisis takes . 
Syria occupied Lebanon militarily from 1976 until 2005 , when it withdrew its troops under international and local pressure following the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri . 
Syrian troops in Lebanon for 29 years from 1976 Syria withdrew its forces in 2005 but retains influence through ties with Hezbollah Syria denies role in 2005 killing of Lebanese PM , Rafik Hariri , which UN-backed tribunal is investigating -LRB- Sources : EU data on trade -LRB- 2010 -RRB- , IOM , UNRWA , CIA World Factbook -RRB- Despite the withdrawal , Syria remains the determining influence in Lebanese politics , and has staged a strong political comeback through its local allies , notably the two main Shia movements - Hezbollah and Amal - and their network of Lebanese partners in different communities . 
Attitudes to Syria - friendship or hostility - divide the Lebanese more than any other issue . 
The Sunni-based alliance known as March 14 , headed by Rafik Hariri 's son Saad , is fiercely opposed . 
Its rivals , the Shia-dominated March 8 coalition headed by Hezbollah , are strongly allied to Damascus . 
March 14 has clearly been delighted by President Bashar al-Assad 's discomfiture , and has even been accused of smuggling arms and money across the border from Sunni areas to fuel the uprising . 
Hezbollah and its allies have been dismayed in equal measure . 
If the Syrian regime , based on the Shia-offshoot Alawite minority , were to collapse and the Sunni majority take over , Hezbollah 's lifeline from its Iranian patrons would risk being severed , leaving the movement weakened both in the Lebanese political arena and militarily vis-a-vis Israel . 
Either outcome in Syria - survival or downfall of the regime - raises a clear potential for violent repercussions in Lebanon as the fortunes of local actors rise or drop . 
The sectarian fault lines that connect in Syria run sharply through Lebanon , and there have already been tensions between pro-regime Alawites and hostile Sunnis in the north of the country . 
The crisis in Syria presents its powerful , non-Arab northern neighbor Turkey with both risks and opportunities . 
When the uprising broke out in March , relations between Ankara and Damascus were excellent . 
Mr Assad had a strong rapport with Turkey 's moderate Islamist Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan , who threw himself immediately into trying to encourage a peaceful outcome . 
Friction over Turkish projects using water from Euphrates river Tension in 1990s over Kurdish separatist presence in Syria Turkey backs Arab League stance on Syria sanctions But repeated interventions with Mr Assad drew a blank , leaving the Turkish leadership disillusioned and angrily accusing the Syrians of breaking promises . 
Thereafter , Ankara became convinced that the downfall of Syria 's Baathist regime was only a matter of time , and that the sooner it happened , the better . 
Unusually , Turkey began allowing the Syrian opposition to meet and make declarations on Turkish soil , and gave sanctuary to refugees and military deserters . 
It has become increasingly tough on the Syrian regime , and even became involved in the Arab League sanctions meetings . 
The bottom-line risks underlying Turkey 's reaction are clear . 
Instability on its southern border is anathema . 
It could face big waves of refugees , as happened with Iraq in the early 1990s . 
Turkey is vulnerable to the manipulation of its large Kurdish minority , and there were official suspicions that Syria may have had a hand in encouraging recent attacks by the militant PKK . 
Instability in Syria also threatens vital trade routes linking Turkey to lucrative Arab markets . 
But the pro-active role now played by Turkey goes beyond defense of its interests to a more ambitious pursuit of opportunities . 
Regime change in Damascus in favor of the Sunni majority would deal a severe blow to Syria 's strategic ally Iran , Turkey 's main competitor for regional influence . 
It would create a vertical Sunni axis to break the Shia crescent that links Iran , Iraq in its post-2003 Shia-majority form , Alawite-ruled Syria , and Hezbollah-dominated Lebanon . 
Like Lebanon , Iraq has found it hard to take a coherent and unified national position on Syria because of its own internal divisions . 
The Shia-dominated government led by Nouri Maliki has been generally supportive of Mr Assad - although barely two years ago relations were at rock bottom , with Baghdad accusing Damascus of harbouring Iraqi Baathists and sponsoring bomb explosions in the Iraqi capital . 
1-1 .4 million Iraqis are living in Syria Tension over smuggling of militants and weapons across porous border into Iraq Ties frozen for a year in 2009 in row over Baghdad attacks Regime change in Damascus would clearly not serve the interests of the Shia majority political forces in Iraq , which are influenced to greater or lesser degree by Iran . 
Reports that militant Shia leader Moqtada Sadr has been sending fighters to help Mr Assad combat the uprising have been denied , but were nonetheless politically indicative . 
Were the Sunni majority to be empowered in Syria , that would give a boost to the Sunnis in Iraq , politically dominant under Saddam Hussein but now reduced to a largely disgruntled minority . 
Iraqi Sunni leaders have been taking a much less sympathetic line towards Mr Assad and his regime than their Shia counterparts . 
The western areas of Iraq adjacent to Syria are largely Sunni , with tribal ties spreading over the border into areas like al-Bukamal and Deir ez-Zor where there has been serious unrest - and suspicions of cross-border support . 
If the Sunni majority took over in Syria , that could bolster Iraqi Sunni sentiment in the western al-Anbar province and elsewhere , where some Sunnis are starting to push for the kind of federal autonomy enjoyed by Iraqi Kurds in the north . 
Iraq 's Kurdish areas also abut Kurdish-populated parts of north-east Syria . 
So a scenario in which Syria disintegrated into civil and ethnic strife could see stronger cross-border ties emerging between the Kurds , strengthening their aspirations for nationhood . 
Like a spouse trapped in an unhappy but inescapable marriage , Jordan 's relationship with its powerful northern neighbor has fluctuated sharply over the years , ranging between extreme tension and cautious cordiality . 
They are bound together by many neighbourly bonds that make Jordan extremely sensitive to change and instability in Syria . 
Trade worth $ 0.6 bn -LRB- # 0.4 bn -RRB- in 2010 Syria is a vital transport route for essential good being taken to Jordan Many tribes straddle frontier , relying on cross-border trade . 
King Abdullah was the first Arab leader to say President Assad should step down Syria controls the headwaters of the River Jordan on which the kingdom depends for much of its water supply . 
It also straddles the overland route vital to Jordan 's trade . 
Hundreds of Jordanian students are placed in Syrian universities , and there are strong tribal and family ties that cross the borders . 
But politically the two countries are chalk and cheese . 
Jordan is firmly in the pro-Western camp and in 1994 became the second Arab country , after Egypt , to sign a peace agreement with Israel , leaving Syria more isolated in its efforts to regain the occupied Golan Heights . 
Jordan is also a basically Sunni country , while Syria 's Sunni majority is ruled by a regime dominated by its Alawite minority . 
At times of tension in the past , Syria has accused Jordan -LRB- where there are pockets of Islamist militancy in the north -RRB- of stirring unrest among the Sunnis . 
Because of all these sensitivities and vulnerabilities , Jordan has been very low-key in its reaction to the crisis in Syria - which began in Deraa , a southern city with strong tribal and family ties across the nearby Jordanian border . 
Jordanian officials recently admitted that some arms and ammunition had been making their way across the border , though they said they were trying to stop it . 
The official policy is non-interference , and even strong criticism has been couched as advice rather than intervention . 
When King Abdullah suggested in November that Mr Assad should step down , he was careful to say that that was what he would do in his position , rather than calling on him to do so . 
As a country which has fought two wars with Syria and continues to occupy part of its territory , Israel clearly has an enormous stake in the outcome of the Syrian crisis . 
But where Israel 's national interest lies is far from clear , and its leaders have been very circumspect in commenting on Syrian developments . 
Fought wars in 1948 , 1967 and 1973 Also fought in Lebanon during civil war there 1975-1990 Unresolved territorial dispute over the Golan Heights 495,000 Palestinian refugees are registered in Syria . 
Despite the Assad regime 's much-vaunted `` resistance '' to Israel , its sponsorship of militant groups such as Hezbollah and Hamas , and its alliance with Iran , Israeli leaders have been divided over whether the survival of the `` devil they know '' would be preferable to the uncertainties of regime change and the possibility , however remote , of a radical Islamist takeover . 
In practice , despite the fact that there is no peace treaty between the two countries , Israel 's front line with Syria on the Golan plateau has been peaceful since a truce was concluded in 1974 - with the exception of two incidents earlier this year when the Syrians , perhaps hoping to distract attention from the internal turmoil , allowed Palestinian demonstrators to approach the front . 
Under the Assad family , Syria has engaged in peace dialogue with Israel - most recently through Turkish intermediaries two years ago - but even the failure of those initiatives did not lead to trouble . 
So in some ways , Israelis might see their favored scenario as the survival of a regime which has proven containable , even though in 2007 Israel carried out an air strike on what it believed to be a nascent nuclear plant near Deir ez-Zor . 
But ideally from Israel 's standpoint , the regime would emerge weakened to the point of having to drop its alliances with Iran , Hezbollah and Hamas . 
However , events may already have gone too far for that , and some Israeli leaders have concluded that the regime is likely to fall in months , opening a wide range of possible scenarios . 
Ironically , Israel 's proximity and the sensitivities it arouses are the strongest deterrent to Libya-style Western intervention in Syria . 


Syrians living in Turkey have joined in protests against President Assad Turkey is now one of the harshest critics of President Bashar al-Assad 's government in Syria . 
This is in striking contrast to the warm personal relations established between Mr Assad and Turkey 's leaders up until this year . 
The Turkish prime minister has publicly called on Mr Assad to resign , warning that he was turning into a leader `` who feeds on his people 's blood '' . 
Turkish actions , though , have been more cautious . 
It has been two months since Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan promised to impose sanctions on Syria , but only now have they been announced . 
They include a travel ban and the freezing of assets of those close to President Assad , severing relations with Syrian banks , and enforcing an arms embargo . 
In that , they mirror those imposed by the Arab League last week . 
There are no broader trade sanctions - trade between the two countries rose to $ 2.4 bn -LRB- # 1.5 bn , 1.78 bn euro -RRB- last year - nor any measures that could harm ordinary people , like cutting electricity exports or restricting the flow of water from rivers originating in Turkey . 
None of this is surprising . 
The Turkish government has often expressed its scepticism about the effectiveness of sanctions , and Turkish businesses have lobbied hard against any measures that might hurt them . 
Trade with Syria is in any case drying up quickly . 
The Syrian economy is at a standstill , and Turkish entrepreneurs fear that transporting goods into or through Syria is no longer safe . 
They are also concerned they may not get paid . 
There has been a lot of talk about a possible `` buffer zone '' inside Syria , protected by Turkish troops . 
Turkish officials say it has been discussed , but would only be considered if the flow of Syrian refugees became an unmanageable flood , and if Turkey had international backing for such action , in the form of a UN resolution . 
There has also been talk of `` protected corridors '' running from the Turkish border to troubled areas of Syria , like Idlib and Homs . 
But again , Turkish officials insist this is a hypothetical scenario , and no-one has explained how such corridors would be protected . 
What is clear is how closely Turkey is now co-ordinating its response to the crisis in Syria with other countries . 
The Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan felt personally betrayed by President Assad When the Arab uprisings started in January , Turkey often appeared to be acting alone , calling for President Mubarak to step down in Egypt before any other leaders ; arguing strongly against any intervention in Libya ; but then , in an about-turn , deciding to join the multinational operation supporting the Libya opposition movement . 
On Syria , Turkish officials say , they found themselves in the forefront of President Assad 's critics after August , when months of Turkish effort to persuade the Syrian leader to embrace reform collapsed in acrimony . 
Mr Erdogan felt personally betrayed by what he saw as broken promises by Mr Assad , and outraged by the continued killing of protesters . 
But , say those officials , Turkey is more comfortable letting the Arab League , of which Syria is a proud founder member , take the lead in putting pressure on Mr Assad . 
Turkey is consulting Arab League members very closely about tackling Syria , but is being careful not to move ahead of it . 
There has been surprisingly good co-operation too with France . 
Turkish-French relations had been very poor until this the middle of this year , due to President Nicolas Sarkozy 's very public opposition to Turkey 's EU aspirations , his comments about the slaughter of the Armenian population in 1915 , and his hostility to Turkey 's efforts to mediate in Libya . 
A visit by Mr Sarkozy to Turkey earlier this year - his first as president - was widely judged a diplomatic disaster . 
But a more recent trip by Foreign Minister Alain Juppe has helped to smooth over their differences , and established common ground in their approach to Syria . 
Both France and Turkey are leading sponsors of the main Syrian opposition group , the Syrian National Council , and both are working with SNC members to help prepare them for a transition . 
Turkey also gives sanctuary to military defectors who have formed themselves into the Free Syrian Army , although it insists it does not allow FSA attacks to be launched from Turkish territory . 
The United States too is fully supporting Turkey 's role in Syria . 
It suits the Obama administration 's back-seat approach to the Arab uprisings , to let a strong ally like Turkey do much of the leg-work in building the regional alliances needed to manage the Syrian crisis . 
It must also be a source of some satisfaction in Washington to see the strains in Turkey 's relations with Iran over Syria - Turkey 's attempts to engage Iran over its nuclear program last year independently of the US caused some alarm there . 
For Turkey , the most pressing concern is the impact it will feel from whatever now happens in Syria . 
They share their longest frontiers with each other , and a civil war in Syria could have unpleasant consequences for Turkey , from waves of refugees , to increased attacks by Kurdish insurgents based over the border . 
Turkish officials say they have given up hope that President Assad can be part of a solution , but they are pressing the various opposition groups to take care not to allow the violence to escalate into a sectarian conflict . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


By Bridget Kendall Diplomatic correspondent , BBC News Russia has an old ally in Syria , but the political pressure is building to distance itself Syria has provided Russia with a close military ally in the heart of the Arab world since Soviet times . 
And up until recently , it has suited Moscow 's world view to stay friends with President Bashar al-Assad . 
It fits Russia 's profile of itself as an independent Eurasian world power with its own priorities . 
The spat between Russia and Nato over Georgia in 2008 accentuated the trend , prompting Vladimir Putin to announce he was reactivating closer links with old Soviet friends -LRB- Nicaragua and Venezuela in Central and Latin America , and Syria and Algeria in the Arab world -RRB- . 
At the United Nations Security Council , Russia has repeatedly argued that its opposition to UN sanctions against Syria is consistent with a broader refusal to back outside interference in sovereign states , and an insistence that diplomacy is always preferable to coercion . 
That position has hardened in the last decade or so , following the West 's interventions in Kosovo , Iraq and Libya . 
Indeed , Nato 's action in Libya is regularly cited by Russia as the main reason it blocked the UN resolution on Syria in October - precisely because , Moscow said , it feared the start of a slippery slope towards military action . 
Russia may want to proclaim its independence from the West , but it does not want to look isolated either '' Staying loyal to President Assad also reflects another Russian instinct : that stability is usually preferable to turbulence . 
All the various-coloured revolutions in former Soviet republics which preceded the Arab Spring prompted wariness or downright hostility from Mr Putin 's government . 
And Russia is highly sensitive to the geography of the crisis and Syria 's relative proximity to its own unstable Muslim areas : if a full-blown civil war in Syria were to destabilise the entire region , Moscow 's nightmare would be to see trouble spilling over into the North Caucasus on Russia 's side of the border . 
But as often with Russian foreign policy , one has to distinguish between posture and practicalities . 
Russia may want to proclaim its independence from the West , but it does not want to look isolated either . 
Remember what happened with Libya . 
Once it became clear that Col Muammar Gaddafi 's days in power were numbered and other non-Western actors like Turkey and major Arab countries were losing patience , Russia too echoed the call that he should go . 
So far Moscow has not done that with President Assad , though it has warned that the Syrian regime will not survive if it can not reform itself . 
But in recent days the political pressure to do something at the United Nations has been mounting . 
A new UN report on human rights abuses in Syria asserted that the civilian death toll had risen to more than 5,000 . 
The UN Human Rights Commissioner called for the Assad regime to be referred to the International Criminal Court . 
And Russia , seemingly , was stung by accusations that its intransigence was blocking UN action . 
For Russia , a UN resolution could be the top of a slippery slope to military action - like in Libya It too wants to be seen to `` uphold human rights '' in Syria and criticise a `` disproportionate use of force by the Syrian authorities '' , as the new Russian UN text puts it - even if the same draft is also careful to insist on equivalence , and claim that `` extremists '' among the Syrian opposition are also responsible for the bloodshed . 
Besides this , the lessons of `` regime fall '' in Iraq and Libya must also be concentrating minds in Moscow about how best to protect its military and financial interests in Syria . 
Russia is a major arms supplier . 
It has energy projects to protect in Syria and naval interests too : it would like to see the Syrian port of Tartus once again serve as a base for Russian ships as it did in Soviet times . 
All good reasons to support the status quo , but only of course while President Assad remains a viable option . 
Yet at a certain point , Moscow must know that it might have to abandon its long-time ally . 
Once it makes the assessment that Mr Assad and his Alawite officers , some of them trained in Russian military academies , are likely to lose power , then Moscow needs to find a way to shift allegiances . 
Hence the updated draft at the UN . 
Hence - having ruled out sanctions altogether - the hint of a shift in the Russian foreign minister 's recent comments that `` if sanctions could help stop violence and maintain stability ... we would be the most decisive supporters '' . 
And hence , having criticised the Arab League a few weeks ago for suspending Syria 's membership , Russia 's current invocation of the Arab League as part of a possible solution , saying its efforts to encourage dialogue and deploy a monitoring mission in Syria should be supported . 
Where this will lead Russian policy on Syria ? 
Who knows - especially if the Arab League backs not intervention but the establishment of safe havens for fleeing opposition activists . 
One thing is clear : principle is all very well , but Russia 's priority may well be its interests , and how to secure whatever it can salvage for the longer term . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria crisis : Iraq 's Falah Fayadh ` positive ' on talks Pressure is mounting on the Syrian president to end nine months of violence An Iraqi delegation led by National Security adviser Falah al-Fayadh says it has held `` positive '' talks in Syria aimed at ending the violence there . 
Mr Fayadh was trying to broker a deal based on Arab League proposals , and said he would update the group at a meeting in Cairo on Wednesday . 
Meanwhile , Syria 's main opposition group held a conference in Tunisia . 
The Syrian National Council is trying to present itself as a government-in-waiting set to replace Bashar al-Assad . 
Pressure is mounting on the Syrian president to end the violence that the UN says has taken more than 5,000 lives since March . 
Widespread anti-government protests encouraged by the Arab Spring triggered a harsh crackdown that has brought regional and international condemnation . 
But after months of bloodshed and no sign of the regime falling , some Syrians have taken up arms in a bid to remove President Assad . 
Security forces killed at least 24 people on Saturday , the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said , most of them in the central province of Homs , a center of anti-government protests . 
The Local Co-ordination Committees , a group which organises and documents anti-government protests , said 40 people were killed , including eight former soldiers killed in clashes with the Syrian army . 
It is unlikely the Iraqi delegation - which says it had also been in touch with the opponents of Mr Assad - would visit Damascus without at least the tacit approval of Syria 's strategic neighbor Iran , says the BBC 's Jim Muir in Baghdad . 
Jonathan Head BBC News , Istanbul The opposition in Syria has proved remarkably resilient in the face of the heavy firepower used by the Syrian authorities - but it lacks clear leadership . 
This was supposed to be provided by the Syrian National Council , which was established in Istanbul in September - but the council 's leaders are mostly intellectuals in exile who have limited contact with those organising resistance inside Syria . 
They hope that their first congress this weekend will produce a much clearer agreed strategy . 
Concern over the readiness of the opposition to take over from President Assad is one factor holding some countries back from endorsing international intervention in Syria . 
Fittingly , this congress is being held on the first anniversary of the Arab uprisings , in Tunisia , where they began . 
The Iraqis also appeared to think they had US support for the attempt , adds our correspondent , with Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki and Mr Fayadh having just returned from talks in Washington . 
Iraq may appear an unlikely mediator , as its Shia-led government has largely sided with President Assad , adds our correspondent . 
Baghdad did not vote in favor of a raft of economic sanctions imposed recently by the Arab League . 
Leaving Damascus , Mr Fayadh said : `` I am on my way to Cairo for a meeting with the Arab League after holding positive talks with President Assad . '' 
Qatar 's Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad Bin Jassim Bin Jabr al-Thani , meanwhile , said the 22-member Arab bloc would give Syria until Wednesday 's Cairo meeting to allow in observers or it would consider turning to the UN Security Council for action . 
The league suspended Syria 's membership last month , and then imposed sanctions as it tried to persuade Damascus to accept a peace plan that includes the deployment of hundreds of outside observers . 
Some recent Syrian protests have criticised the Arab bloc for canceling a Syria-focused meeting on Saturday and extending a deadline for Damascus to end the crackdown and agree to the observer mission . 
Earlier this month Damascus said it would allow the mission to enter Syria on a number of conditions - including the lifting of sanctions . 
Some 200 members of the Syrian National Council are meeting in the resort of Gammarth north of Tunis in a bid to further unify the Syrian opposition . 
`` We need to emerge from this congress with a higher level of organization , clearer targets and more momentum , '' said SNC leader Burhan Ghalioun . 
The congress opened on Friday evening and runs until Sunday . 
The formation of the SNC was formally announced in Istanbul , Turkey , in September , but its leaders are mostly exiled intellectuals who have limited contact with those organising resistance inside Syria . 
Earlier this month , the SNC said it had agreed to co-ordinate action with the Free Syrian Army -LRB- FSA -RRB- , largely made up of renegade soldiers . 
The council said the FSA had agreed to reduce attacks on government forces . 
Analysts say the SNC may face a challenge from another opposition grouping , the National Alliance , which was formed in Istanbul on Thursday . 
Foreign correspondents are largely banned from the country , making it difficult to confirm accounts of the unrest . 
President Assad has denied ordering security forces to attack peaceful protesters , and says the violence is being orchestrated by armed gangs . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria crisis : ` Nearly 200 lives lost ' in last two days The BBC 's Jim Muir : `` It certainly seems there is a big flare-up of violence '' Almost 200 people have died in two days of clashes in Syria , activists say , as the violence there intensifies . 
Two activist groups put Tuesday 's toll at 84 - the majority in Idlib province in the north-west . 
Video has emerged of a young boy , whose body was apparently torn in half by shelling in the city of Homs . 
The bloodshed comes a day before an advance group of Arab League monitors is due to arrive to oversee the implementation of a peace initiative . 
The UN said earlier this month that more than 5,000 people had been killed across Syria since protests against President Bashar al-Assad erupted in March . 
Damascus says it is fighting `` armed terrorist gangs '' , who want to destabilise the country . 
The BBC 's Jim Muir in Beirut says the swelling violence could be Syrian authorities `` clearing up unfinished business '' ahead of the arrival of the Arab League monitors - or it could be unrelated . 
In violence on Monday , activists said as many as 110 people may have died in fighting across the country - including 60-70 army deserters apparently gunned down by machine-gun fire close to a village called Kafrouaid in Idlib province . 
Activist groups reported more violence in this region of the Zawiya mountains on Tuesday , with the Local Co-ordination Committees saying 25 people had died close to the same village by heavy machine-gun fire and shelling . 
Syria 's armed forces said they were ready to repulse any foreign aggression Our correspondent says reports suggest security services are acting against army deserters and civilians trapped in a valley . 
Many of the towns and cities in Idlib are without internet and mobile phone connections , and some towns are without electricity , the LCC says . 
In addition on Tuesday , it says , another 34 people died in Idlib province , 14 in Homs , and 11 elsewhere - bringing the total toll to 84 . 
Another activist group reported the same toll . 
But some reports have given much higher death tolls for the recent violence . 
The BBC spoke to Wissam Tarif , a well-known activist based in Beirut , who said accounts from hospitals and witnesses suggested 269 people had been killed in Idlib province on Tuesday alone - mostly defecting soldiers but also 93 loyalist soldiers and six civilians . 
Because the Arab League had `` called on the Syrian army to stop obeying its political leadership ... therefore now we see a high number of defections in the army '' , he said . 
In the local town of Jabal al-Zawiya alone , more than 3,000 soldiers had defected , he claimed - and 10,000 had defected across Syria . 
The opposition umbrella group the Syrian National Council -LRB- SNC -RRB- , meanwhile , said 250 had died over Monday and Tuesday . 
It urged the international community to act against the `` horrific massacres '' . 
Activist images apparently showed protests in the center of Damascus on Monday and Tuesday None of the casualty claims has been independently verified , as foreign media are banned from reporting in Syria - but all the activist groups reporting agree that there has been a surge in violence , our correspondent says , with particular concentrations of bloodshed in mountainous parts of Idlib province and the country 's third city of Homs . 
Video footage emerged on Tuesday , allegedly showing the body of a young boy torn in half in the ruins of two houses hit by army shelling in Homs . 
Syria 's air and naval forces conducted live-fire maneuvers aimed testing their readiness to repulse `` any aggression against the homeland , '' the official Sana news agency reported , with state TV pictures reportedly showing warplanes and helicopters firing missiles at targets in a desert area , as well as surface-to-air missiles hitting targets in the air . 
Sana reported a new decree under which anyone found guilty of distributing weapons `` with the aim of committing terrorist acts '' would be sentenced to death . 
Pictures supplied to Reuters news agency by activists apparently showed demonstrations hitting the center of Damascus on Monday and Tuesday . 
League officials have said that the first monitors could be in the country as early as Thursday . 
This follows the announcement that Damascus had agreed to the observer mission on Monday . 
Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Muallem said the country 's sovereignty would be protected because the Arab League had agreed to amendments to the deal , which also calls for all violence to be halted , for the withdrawal of troops from the streets , and the release of detainees . 
The observers would be `` free '' in their movements and `` under the protection of the Syrian government '' , Mr Muallem added , but would not be allowed to visit sensitive military sites . 
The observers will have a one-month mandate that can be extended by another month if both sides agree . 
The leader of the SNC has dismissed the government 's decision as `` just a ploy '' . 
Activists say that if the government does withdraw the army , many areas will immediately fall out of its control . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


10 January 12 18:37 GMT Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has blamed a foreign conspiracy for trying to destabilise Syria , as a mass uprising against his rule continues . 
The `` external conspiracy is clear to everybody '' , Mr Assad said in his first public remarks in months . 
He said elections could be held later this year but `` terrorism '' , he added , would be met with an `` iron fist '' . 
Meanwhile the Arab League said it held the government `` totally responsible '' for attacks against its observers . 
In a statement issued on Tuesday , Arab League chief Nabil al-Arabi denounced `` irresponsible action and acts of violence against the league 's observers '' in Syria . 
Mr Arabi said some monitors had been wounded in attacks by both pro-regime elements and by opposition supporters . 
Earlier , Kuwait 's state news agency said two Kuwaiti members of the mission had been slightly injured on Monday in the city of Latakia by `` unidentified protesters '' . 
They were discharged from hospital and have now returned to their duties , Kuna news agency said . 
President Assad 's speech , broadcast live from Damascus University , was his third televised address since protests against his rule began in March , and lasted nearly two hours . 
`` Regional and international sides have tried to destabilise the country , '' he said . 
`` Our priority now is to regain the security in which we basked in for decades , and this can only be achieved by hitting the terrorists with an iron fist . 
`` We will not be lenient with those who work with outsiders against the country . '' 
BBC world affairs correspondent Nick Childs says the speech was a riposte to those who are asking questions about the pressure under which Mr Assad is operating . 
It was a message that there will be no concessions and its main theme was that nothing is going to change as far as the Syrian response is concerned , our correspondent says . 
Syrian authorities say they are fighting armed groups , and that about 2,000 members of the security forces have been killed so far . 
In recent months , army deserters have joined the opposition and targeted government forces . 
A team of 165 monitors from the Arab League has been in Syria since December to monitor implementation of a peace plan that calls for an end to all violence , the removal of heavy weapons from cities and the release of all political prisoners . 
Opposition groups have accused the Arab League mission of serving to cover up the crackdown on the protests , which has continued despite the presence of the observers . 
Mr Assad said that there were no orders for security forces to fire on protesters . 
`` There is no order from any level about opening fire on any citizen . 
According to the law , nobody should open fire - only in self-defence or during a clash with an armed person . '' 
Reacting to the speech , the head of the opposition Syrian National Council , Burhan Ghalioun , said Mr Assad 's emphasis on restoring order `` means he is backing away from his own pledge to the Arab League plan '' . 
Mr Ghalioun said the anti-terrorist measures announced by Mr Assad `` undercut any Arab or non-Arab initiative to find a political solution to the crisis '' . 
The Local Co-ordination Committees , a network of anti-government activists , said 35 protesters had been killed on Tuesday , including 17 in the eastern city of Deir al-Zour . 
The UN says 400 people have been killed by security forces since the start of the observer mission . 
Last month the UN put the death toll since March at 5,000 . 
In his speech , Mr Assad lashed out at the Arab League , which suspended Syria in November and imposed sanctions , saying : `` We were surprised Arabs did not stand with Syria '' . 
He said Arab countries that opposed Syria were under outside pressure , which was undermining their sovereignty . 
But , he added , Syria would not `` close its doors '' to an Arab solution as long as `` it respects Syria 's sovereignty '' . 
There were no obstacles to a multi-party system , he said , adding that it was a question of time . 
Mr Assad said he welcomed the idea of expanding the government to include `` all political forces '' . 
A referendum on a new constitution could be held in March , he said , paving the way for elections in May or June . 
Syria is ruled by the Baath party , dominated by President Assad 's family and the minority Alawite sect , an offshoot of Shia Islam . 
He took power in 2000 after the death of his father Hafez al-Assad , who ruled Syria for 40 years . 
`` I rule with the will of the people , '' he said . 
`` If I give up power , I will do so with the will of the people too . '' 


Syrian President Bashar al-Assad : `` Nobody can deny the seriousness of these plots '' Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has blamed a foreign conspiracy for trying to destabilise Syria , as a mass uprising against his rule continues . 
The `` external conspiracy is clear to everybody '' , Mr Assad said in his first public remarks in months . 
He said elections could be held later this year but `` terrorism '' , he added , would be met with an `` iron fist '' . 
Meanwhile the Arab League said it held the government `` totally responsible '' for attacks against its observers . 
In a statement issued on Tuesday , Arab League chief Nabil al-Arabi denounced `` irresponsible action and acts of violence against the league 's observers '' in Syria . 
Mr Arabi said some monitors had been wounded in attacks by both pro-regime elements and by opposition supporters . 
Jonathan Head BBC News , Istanbul We have heard much of this script before from Bashar al-Assad . 
The crisis in his country has been caused by a foreign conspiracy ; the protesters are terrorists ; he still has the support of the Syrian people ; and his government alone will implement reform . 
It was a rambling speech to a sympathetic audience . 
The president appeared relaxed , even managing a few jokes . 
But there was no flexibility in his view of the uprising , which is blamed entirely on other countries and internal enemies - not even the smallest acknowledgement that the protesters may have legitimate demands . 
It is possible he really believes this Orwellian narrative . 
Or it is possible he was shoring up his base , sticking to his guns to show them he intends to stay at the helm . 
He offered a timetable for reform , stating that a new constitution could be put to a referendum by March this year , with multiparty elections following two or three months after that . 
Given the turmoil in Syria , this is an impossibly tight schedule . 
Either the president is making a promise he knows he can not honor or he has lost his grip on reality . 
Earlier , Kuwait 's state news agency said two Kuwaiti members of the mission had been slightly injured on Monday in the city of Latakia by `` unidentified protesters '' . 
They were discharged from hospital and have now returned to their duties , Kuna news agency said . 
President Assad 's speech , broadcast live from Damascus University , was his third televised address since protests against his rule began in March , and lasted nearly two hours . 
`` Regional and international sides have tried to destabilise the country , '' he said . 
`` Our priority now is to regain the security in which we basked in for decades , and this can only be achieved by hitting the terrorists with an iron fist . 
`` We will not be lenient with those who work with outsiders against the country . '' 
BBC world affairs correspondent Nick Childs says the speech was a riposte to those who are asking questions about the pressure under which Mr Assad is operating . 
It was a message that there will be no concessions and its main theme was that nothing is going to change as far as the Syrian response is concerned , our correspondent says . 
I rule with the will of the people . 
If I give up power , I will do so with the will of the people too '' End Quote President Bashar al-Assad Syrian authorities say they are fighting armed groups , and that about 2,000 members of the security forces have been killed so far . 
In recent months , army deserters have joined the opposition and targeted government forces . 
A team of 165 monitors from the Arab League has been in Syria since December to monitor implementation of a peace plan that calls for an end to all violence , the removal of heavy weapons from cities and the release of all political prisoners . 
Opposition groups have accused the Arab League mission of serving to cover up the crackdown on the protests , which has continued despite the presence of the observers . 
Mr Assad said that there were no orders for security forces to fire on protesters . 
`` There is no order from any level about opening fire on any citizen . 
According to the law , nobody should open fire - only in self-defence or during a clash with an armed person . '' 
Reacting to the speech , the head of the opposition Syrian National Council , Burhan Ghalioun , said Mr Assad 's emphasis on restoring order `` means he is backing away from his own pledge to the Arab League plan '' . 
Anti-government protests have continued despite a heavy crackdown against them Mr Ghalioun said the anti-terrorist measures announced by Mr Assad `` undercut any Arab or non-Arab initiative to find a political solution to the crisis '' . 
The Local Co-ordination Committees , a network of anti-government activists , said 35 protesters had been killed on Tuesday , including 17 in the eastern city of Deir al-Zour . 
The UN says 400 people have been killed by security forces since the start of the observer mission . 
Last month the UN put the death toll since March at 5,000 . 
In his speech , Mr Assad lashed out at the Arab League , which suspended Syria in November and imposed sanctions , saying : `` We were surprised Arabs did not stand with Syria '' . 
He said Arab countries that opposed Syria were under outside pressure , which was undermining their sovereignty . 
But , he added , Syria would not `` close its doors '' to an Arab solution as long as `` it respects Syria 's sovereignty '' . 
There were no obstacles to a multi-party system , he said , adding that it was a question of time . 
Mr Assad said he welcomed the idea of expanding the government to include `` all political forces '' . 
A referendum on a new constitution could be held in March , he said , paving the way for elections in May or June . 
Syria is ruled by the Baath party , dominated by President Assad 's family and the minority Alawite sect , an offshoot of Shia Islam . 
He took power in 2000 after the death of his father Hafez al-Assad , who ruled Syria for 40 years . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 
10th January 2012 - 21:26 In short , I hope that the Syrian people can find the freedom that they 're looking for and I hope that they can do it with as little bloodshed as possible , although unfortunately Assad will scorch the earth before that happens . 
Also , I hope we -LRB- the West -RRB- stay the heck out of it . 
It 's their fight to win or loose on their own accord and it is n't our problem . 
10th January 2012 - 20:48 A collapse of the Assad regime will bring chaos , like that which followed the invasion of Iraq , rather than the relatively smooth transition of Tunisia . 
Assad is indeed correct . 
The Syrian people have conspired to remove him . 
He 's stating the obvious . 
In Syria , the will of the Syrian people , not the will of the ` West ' , will ultimately prevail ! 
10th January 2012 - 16:01 If only someone in Syria could stand up and say `` Syria for the Syrians - to hell with Iran , Hezbollah , Palestinians , Israel , Lebanon , interfering clerics , Saudi , the US and Russia . 
We have a fabulous country with a rich and vibrant culture . 
We will be a country that is for all Syrians . 
We will get our lost land back from Israel through negotiation and become a happy , prosperous secular democracy '' 10th January 2012 - 15:31 I believe that this Syrian Uprising is just another western `` color '' revolution . 
I believe this because Syria is an the west 's way in its bid to make war with Iran . 
What we are seeing in Syria is a deliberate and calculated campaign to bring down the Assad government so as to replace it with a regime more compatible ' with US interests in the region . 
10th January 2012 - 15:28 Here we go again ... Just like Lybia , Iraq , Eygpt , Iran and Tunsia yet another dictator and his cronies hanging on to power , corruption and oppression . 
Let 's hope the Syrian masses will prevail and over through thier tyrant as there seems to be only lip service from the Arab league , who no doubt have pictures of Gadaffi and Saddam still freah in thier minds . 
All posts are reactively-moderated and must obey the house rules . 


A car used by Arab League monitors was attacked in Damascus Damascus on a rainy winter 's evening . 
The lights are blazing , the traffic flows smoothly , the smart boutiques of the new town and the souks in the old city seem busy enough . 
But for all the assurances of the government , life in the Syrian capital is far from normal . 
`` We do n't work well , we do n't sleep well , '' one middle-class woman , a graphic designer in her thirties , tells me . 
`` We are scared . '' 
She does n't take part in street protests herself . 
Like many others , she thinks it is too dangerous . 
But she certainly supports their aim . 
And those protests - once mainly in towns well away from Damascus - now spring up ever more frequently in suburbs of the capital , creeping closer and closer , it appears , to the well-guarded center . 
The impression of ever-deepening crisis is one the government is determined to resist . 
This week President Bashar al-Assad made what was said to be an impromptu appearance with his family on a huge city-centre square . 
President al-Assad made a reportedly impromptu rally appearance He was cheered by thousands of supporters also said to have gathered spontaneously to greet him . 
`` Nothing was arranged beforehand , '' my government minder tells me . 
`` If people had known the president was going to appear , millions would have turned out to cheer . 
But he just decided to stop to talk on the square because he 's that kind of person . 
He lives among the people . 
You can often see him in a local shop buying sweets for his children . '' 
In his unscripted speech on the square , the president returned yet again to his favorite theme : Syria is threatened by a foreign conspiracy that is in league with `` terrorists '' within the country . 
He is talking not only of Western powers such as the United States , which this week accused him of `` cynicism , '' but also of Arab states such as Qatar , one of the chief movers behind the Arab League monitoring mission being sent to Syria . 
Qatar has now suggested the mission is so ineffective in stopping the violence that it should be withdrawn . 
Anti-government protests are moving ever closer to the city center Speaking anonymously - because the terms of their engagement forbid them talking to the media - some of the monitors tell me they are more afraid of going into pro-government areas than into opposition strongholds . 
Crowds have vented their anger on what they see as the monitors ' interference in Syrian affairs . 
And in the car park of the Sheraton Hotel , one of their bases , you can see the evidence of that anger - Arab League vehicles with windows smashed and plastered with stickers of Mr Assad , the bumpers caved in and tyres let down . 
At the Foreign Ministry , spokesman Jihad Makdissi tells me that should not have happened . 
People have now been told , he says , to let the monitors work freely . 
And he is also keen to stress that the president 's talk of a conspiracy was `` for internal consumption '' . 
Syria wants the mission to continue , he says . 
But on Thursday another 18 deaths were reported in the continuing struggle between demonstrators and security forces - bringing to more than 400 the number killed since the mission began in late December . 
More than 5,000 civilians have been killed , says the UN More than 400 killed since start of Arab League mission on 26 December UN denied access to Syria Information gathered from NGOs , sources in Syria and Syrians who have fled Vast majority of casualties were unarmed , but the figure may include armed defectors Tally does not include serving members of the security forces In the meantime , Mr Assad continues to insist that he wants dialogue with opposition forces , and he has set out what he says is a timetable for democratic reforms . 
But he has been saying the same thing for months , without any sign of his government reaching out even to those elements of the highly-fractured opposition that would be prepared to talk to him . 
It is a stalemate , but a dangerous one in which more and more protesters , who once insisted demonstrations must be peaceful , now believe some of their number should carry guns - not to attack the security forces , but at least to defend themselves against attack . 
`` The regime is launched down a cul-de-sac '' , one Western diplomat tells me . 
And many fear that at the end of it will be even more violence . 
Watch Tim Whewell 's full report from Damascus on Newsnight at 10.30 pm on BBC Two on Friday 13 January 2012 . 


Syria crisis : Qatar calls for Arabs to send in troops Under the emir , Qatar was the first Arab country to join the military intervention in Libya The ruler of the Gulf state of Qatar has said Arab countries should send troops into Syria to stop government forces killing civilians there . 
Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani told US television channel CBS `` some troops should go to stop the killing '' . 
It is the first time an Arab leader has publicly called for military intervention in Syria . 
More than 5,000 civilians have been killed since anti-government protests erupted in Syria in March , the UN says . 
Qatar was the first Arab country to join the Nato-led operation in Libya , which led to the downfall of Libyan leader Col Muammar Gaddafi . 
It has also led regional criticism of the crackdowns on protesters by President Bashar al-Assad in Syria and in Yemen by President Ali Abdullah Saleh . 
Interviewed on the 60 Minutes program , Sheikh Hamad was asked if he was in favor of Arab nations intervening in Syria . 
`` For such a situation to stop the killing ... some troops should go to stop the killing , '' he said , in the program to be broadcast on Sunday . 
Peter Biles BBC world affairs correspondent Qatar 's proposal to send Arab troops to Syria demonstrates the mounting concern over the killing of civilians . 
Last week , the head of the Arab League , Nabil Elaraby , warned that Syria may be sliding towards civil war . 
The international community has been insistent that the Arab League should remain at the forefront in trying to resolve the situation in Syria . 
However , the League is divided , with Qatar one of the strongest critics of the Assad regime . 
Qatar played a key role in bringing down the Libyan dictator , Colonel Gaddafi . 
It gave extensive financial and material support to Libya 's rebels . 
There was no question of `` putting boots on the ground '' but it did offer air support to Nato . 
The Afro-Middle East Centre , a think-tank based in Johannesburg , says the Arab League has not recovered from the Libyan crisis , and has been more careful in dealing with Syria . 
So the deployment of Arab troops in Syria seems a most unlikely prospect . 
The Arab League despatched 165 observers to Syria to monitor compliance with a peace plan , but members have expressed doubts as to the mission 's efficacy . 
One of the observers resigned last week , calling the mission a `` farce '' because of impediments by the Syrian government . 
Anwar Malek said he had witnessed war crimes in Syria . 
Two Kuwaiti observers were wounded when their convoy was attacked in the city of Latakia . 
Plans to extend the mission were put on hold as a result of the incident . 
The observers are due to complete their initial four-week deployment on 19 January . 
Their report will be discussed by Arab League foreign ministers at a meeting next Saturday . 
The league has said it may refer Syria to the UN Security Council if the monitors ' report is negative . 
China and Russia have so far blocked any UN action on Syria , fearing a Security Council resolution could lead to another international intervention , such as occurred with Libya . 
The head of the Arab League , Nabil al-Araby , said on Friday he feared Syria was sliding into a full-scale civil war . 
More than 400 civilians have been killed in Syria since the observers began their mission in December , according to the UN . 
More than 5,000 civilians have been killed , says the UN More than 400 killed since start of Arab League mission on 26 December UN denied access to Syria Information gathered from NGOs , sources in Syria and Syrians who have fled Vast majority of casualties were unarmed , but the figure may include armed defectors Tally does not include serving members of the security forces In Syria , troops backed by tanks are continuing an assault , begun on Friday , on the rebellious mountain town of Zabadani , near the Lebanese border , witnesses say . 
Reuters news agency quoted an exiled opposition leader as saying 40 people in the town were injured in the fighting on Saturday . 
It was the biggest attack on opponents of Mr Assad since the Arab observers began work on 26 December , Reuters said . 
Casualty reports are hard to verify because most foreign media are barred from reporting freely in Syria . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


17 January 12 16:55 GMT Syria 's government has firmly rejected a call from Qatar for Arab troops to be deployed in the country to end the deadly crackdown on protesters . 
A foreign ministry statement said such a move would `` worsen the crisis ... and pave the way for foreign intervention '' . 
On Sunday , the emir of Qatar said `` some troops should go to stop the killing '' . 
An Arab League observer mission tasked with verifying the implementation of a peace plan has not ended the violence , which the UN says has left 5,000 dead . 
At least 18 civilians have so far been killed on Tuesday , including eight who died when a minibus was hit by an explosion in the north-western province of Idlib and eight in the central city of Homs , according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights . 
Another activist group , the Local Co-ordination Committees , put the death toll at 30 , including 18 in Homs and seven in Idlib province . 
The state news agency , Sana , meanwhile said six soldiers had been killed in a rocket attack on a rural checkpoint near the capital , Damascus . 
On Sunday , the Emir of Qatar , Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani , became the first Arab leader to propose Arab military intervention to halt the violent crackdown on dissent by Syrian security forces . 
He told the US television network CBS : `` For such a situation to stop the killing ... some troops should go to stop the killing . '' 
Last year , the emir gave his full support to Nato 's intervention in Libya to protect civilians , which helped rebels overthrow Muammar Gaddafi . 
There has been little suggestion from other Arab states or Western powers that they are considering military intervention in Syria , and Arab League officials insisted on Sunday that there had been no agreement . 
On Tuesday , the Syrian foreign ministry said it had been `` astonished '' by Qatar 's suggestion , which it `` absolutely rejected '' . 
`` Syria rejects the statements of officials of Qatar on sending Arab troops to worsen the crisis ... and pave the way for foreign intervention , '' a statement said . 
`` The Syrian people ... will oppose any attempt to undermine the sovereignty of Syria and the integrity of its territory . '' 
`` It would be regrettable for Arab blood to flow on Syria 's territory to serve known -LRB- interests -RRB- , '' the statement added , without elaborating . 
President Bashar al-Assad has blamed a `` foreign conspiracy '' for the 10-month uprising , and officials say `` armed gangs and terrorists '' have killed 2,000 security forces personnel . 
The BBC 's Jonathan Head , who is in neighbouring Turkey , says the Arab League is divided over what to do , and in any case has little experience of forming a multi-national peacekeeping force . 
Such a force would also need either an invitation from the Syrian government , or the approval of the UN Security Council , and neither is likely , our correspondent adds . 
The Arab League must also decide soon whether to withdraw its 165 monitors , whose mandate expires on Thursday , or keep them in Syria . 
The organization is expected to announce that Syria has failed to abide by the peace plan it accepted last year , which was supposed to see tanks and troops withdrawn from towns and cities , detained protesters released , access given to the media , and talks opened with the opposition . 
It could also refer the matter to the UN Security Council , but until now Russia and China have prevented any action on Syria . 
UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon warned on Monday that the situation in Syria had `` reached an unacceptable point '' . 
The leader of the Free Syrian Army , a group of army defectors seeking to topple President Assad , also urged the Security Council to intervene . 
`` The Arab League and their monitors failed in their mission , '' Col Riyad al-Asaad told the Reuters news agency from Turkey . 
`` For that reason we call on them to turn the issue over to the UN Security Council and we ask that the international community intervene because they are more capable of protecting Syrians at this stage than our Arab brothers , '' he added . 
Arab diplomats say the Syrian government is willing to extend the mandate of the observer mission and allow in more monitors , but would not allow an expansion of the mission 's scope , according to Reuters . 
In a separate development , the prominent human rights activist Najati Tayyara has been released from custody , according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights . 
Mr Tayyara was arrested in May after criticising the abuse of pro-reformist protesters by the government . 
A judge ordered his release on bail on 29 August , but he was reportedly re-arrested the same day . 


By Barbara Plett BBC UN correspondent The Arab League monitors ' mission has been criticized as ineffective For the UN Security Council , much is at stake when it comes to the Arab League 's monitors in Syria . 
There are two broad but opposing positions in the Council . 
Both have tied their policies to the fate of the mission , which was given a month to observe Syria 's compliance with an Arab peace plan , and is expected to report back this week . 
In essence , the divide is over whether the Security Council should get involved in the Syrian crisis . 
On one side are Western nations -LRB- in particular Britain , France , the United States and Germany -RRB- which see the conflict as appalling government repression of peaceful protesters . 
They seek a strong condemnation of Damascus and punitive action such as sanctions or an arms embargo . 
On the other side are states led by Russia , which is intent on protecting its considerable strategic interests with a long-time Arab ally . 
But it also believes that any Council intervention would have a hidden and counter-productive agenda of ousting the regime of President Bashar al-Assad , and fears a scenario where the UN backs one side in a civil war , as it claims happened in Libya . 
Russia is supported by countries such as China , India and South Africa , which worry that any outside intervention would make a bad situation worse . 
They want the UN to stick to calls for political dialogue and prefer to leave the mediation in Arab hands . 
Hence the importance of how the Arab League judges its mission , and what it decides to do next . 
We might have a chance of avoiding a Russian veto only if we get a public and official request for action from the Arab League '' End Quote Gerard Araud French ambassador to the UN It might bow to growing criticism that its monitors are failing to stem the violence in Syria and refer the matter to the Security Council . 
Council members give considerable weight to regional requests , and Western powers believe such a clear signal could break Russian resistance to UN action . 
`` We might have a chance of avoiding a Russian veto only if we get a public and official request for action from the Arab League , '' says French Ambassador Gerard Araud . 
`` That is certainly a necessary condition , although I do n't know if it is a sufficient one . '' 
But the Arab League could also decide to continue and bolster its mission , strengthening the hand of Russia , which has argued that the monitors are helping to stabilise the situation . 
`` We think they 've established a foothold there , '' says Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin . 
`` They 're in a better position than initially to have a restraining influence , so we hope they will continue beyond -LRB- one month -RRB- and as long as it takes for the political crisis to be brought to a halt . '' 
It is not only the Security Council that is divided : members of the Arab League are also far apart . 
Qatar is leading the drive against Syria , with quiet support from Gulf states . 
Others like Algeria , Iraq and , according to a Western diplomat , even Egypt may oppose any referral to the Council . 
Arab differences mirror the UN debate over the need for outside intervention and the desirability of regime change , even though they couch their concerns in the language of human rights . 
Analysts say the Sunni Muslim Gulf states see the end of the Assad regime as an opportunity to weaken Syria 's Shia Muslim ally Iran , which they perceive as a growing regional threat . 
Other Arab governments see the end of the regime ushering in a sectarian and civil war that could suck in players from Israel to Iran . 
For them , supporting the Arab mission is a way of avoiding any international action that could contribute to the break-up of Syria : not necessarily through a Libya-like Nato operation but through punishing sanctions , no-fly or buffer zones , or the creation of safe havens for the opposition . 
For these states , the emergence of an armed resistance in Syria is every bit as alarming as the government 's repression . 
Some Arab countries say the monitors are having trouble with the armed resistance `` The feeling is that the Syrian government is in the process of making more of an effort , but the Arab League is especially having problems with the armed opposition and is not managing to penetrate neighborhoods that are today belonging to the opposition , '' Algerian Foreign Minister Mourad Medelci told journalists at the UN recently . 
Given these divisions , the Arab League foreign ministers may be unable to come to a definitive conclusion about their monitoring mission when they meet at the weekend . 
`` The most likely -LRB- scenario -RRB- is a fuzzy outcome , '' says one Western diplomat , `` but then we would have to take stock of our options : we are not planning to let this drop . '' 
Indeed , the West can not afford to let Syria drop . 
Some of the ideas floating around here include requesting a special envoy of the Secretary General for Syria , or bringing the Qatari prime minister and Arab League secretary general to New York to brief the Security Council . 
But that would be no substitute for the strong resolution condemning and perhaps sanctioning the Syrian government that Western states believe is long overdue . 
Yet the bottom line remains that the strength of any Council action will depend on the strength of an Arab League mandate . 
And without a clear Arab referral to the UN , Western nations will likely face a Russian veto for anything other than the weakest of resolutions . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Thousands have died in political violence in the past 10 months Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal called on the international community to put more pressure on the regime . 
He was speaking at an Arab League meeting in Cairo , which is expected to extend the Syria mission for a month . 
Critics have said the 165-strong mission has done nothing to stop a 10-month crackdown on protesters . 
Activists say almost 1,000 people have been killed since the monitoring mission began . 
The main opposition coalition , the Syrian National Council , has formally asked the league to refer the crisis to the UN Security Council . 
The league 's foreign ministers are meeting in Cairo to discuss the conclusions of Syria mission chief , Gen Mohammed al-Dabi of Sudan . 
Gen Dabi is believed to favor extending the mission and boosting the number of observers . 
Prince Saud al-Faisal told the meeting that Riyadh was pulling out because the Syrian government had not followed an Arab peace plan it agreed to before the monitors were sent . 
`` We are calling on the international community to bear its responsibility , and that includes our brothers in Islamic states and our friends in Russia , China , Europe and the United States , '' he said . 
Meanwhile , the rebel Free Syrian Army said that army deserters had briefly taken control of much of the Damascus suburb of Douma on Saturday night after fierce fighting with the security services . 
The UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said the fighting broke out after security services shot dead four civilians at a funeral service . 
More than 5,000 civilians killed since March , says the UN UN denied access to Syria Information gathered from NGOs , sources in Syria and Syrians who have fled Vast majority of casualties were unarmed , but the figure may include armed defectors Tally does not include serving members of the security forces The rebels later decided to withdraw for fear of reprisal raids from the government forces , the group said . 
There has been no independent confirmation of any fighting in the area . 
In a separate development , at least 14 people died after a van carrying prisoners was blown up on a road in north-west Syria on Saturday , reports say . 
The official Sana news agency said the police van was attacked by an `` armed group '' on the Idlib-Ariha highway . 
Opposition groups confirmed the attack but did not say who carried it out . 
Activists said armed rebels then stormed the state hospital and found another 60 bodies in the mortuary , some of them showing signs of torture . 
Thirty unidentified corpses were also reportedly discovered at the National Hospital in Idlib . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 
22nd January 2012 - 18:12 The Syrian government has simply ignored and snubbed the presence of the Arab League . 
It 's a lot clear that the Arab League 's efforts to restore the order were n't effective . 
The monitors will only be effective if : 1 - They are given free rein to travel anywhere in Syria without Govt minders so that neither the regime , nor the opposition will know where the monitors are at any given time . 
2 - The number of monitors is increased 3 or 4 fold . 
3 - There is no given date when monitors have to leave 22nd January 2012 - 14:06 The Arab league is looking even more ineffectual than the UN . 
Someone with the firepower needs to step in to prevent this continuing series of war crimes by the Assad regime . 
Really , this time around , it needs to be the Russians , with the support of the Arab League . 
Trouble is , do Putin 's lot really care , or want to appear to care , about the human suffering and injustice happening in Syria now ? 
22nd January 2012 - 12:47 What is the point of observers ? 
If they are looking for things that would lead to action by the AL then the regime will ensure that they do n't see it . 
To find facts requires investigators with power which will never be allowed . 
Therefore this is procrastination from making tough decisions ... they do n't want to take . 
All posts are reactively-moderated and must obey the house rules . 


Syria unrest : Arab League urges Assad to reform The Arab League has called for a national unity government in Syria , aimed at ending the bloodshed in the country The Arab League has outlined a series of reforms it wants Syria to undertake to end the violence in the country . 
After a meeting in Cairo , the league called on the Syrian authorities to form a national unity government to include the opposition in two months . 
It said both sides should end the bloodshed , urging President Bashar al-Assad to hand over power to his deputy . 
Syria 's state TV quoted an unnamed Syrian official as saying that Damascas had rejected the power transfer plan . 
`` Syria rejects the decisions taken which are outside an Arab working plan , and considers them an attack on its national sovereignty , '' the official said , according to the AFP news agency . 
Earlier on Sunday , Saudi Arabia said it was pulling out of the league 's 165-strong monitoring mission in Syria because Damascus had broken promises on peace initiatives . 
While the Arab League ministers said they were extending the controversial mission for another month , analysts say the Saudi decision has thrown its longer-term future into serious doubt . 
Saudi Arabia is one of the key funders of the league 's projects , but the monitors have been criticised for failing to stop the violence . 
The Arab League is now increasingly split about what could be done to resolve the Syrian crisis , the BBC Middle East editor Jeremy Bowen in Damascus reports . 
With the Syrians rejecting the conditions of the initiative , the Arab League 's roadmap is effectively in tatters , our correspondent says . 
Meanwhile , violence has continued in Syria , with activists reporting battles between government troops and army defectors in Damascus ' suburb of Douma on Sunday . 
At least five people were killed , according to Syria 's Local Coordination Committees . 
Activists say almost 1,000 people have been killed since the monitoring mission began in December . 
At the start of the Arab League meeting , Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal urged the international community to step in and put pressure on Damascus . 
The BBC 's Jon Leyne in Cairo says the league 's foreign ministers spent five hours trying to resolve growing differences in their ranks over Syria . 
At a news conference in Cairo , Qatari ruler Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim al-Thani read out a statement agreed by the ministers laying out an ambitious plan of political reform . 
It called on President Assad to delegate power to his vice-president to engage in proper dialogue with the opposition within two weeks , and form a government of national unity in two months . 
The league said this should eventually lead to multi-party elections overseen by international observers . 
`` The new Arab initiative adopted by the foreign ministers envisages the peaceful departure of the Syrian regime , '' Sheikh Hamad said , in a quote translated by the AFP news agency . 
Jeremy Bowen met pro-Assad supporters at a demo in Damascus He said the league would seek the support of the UN Security Council for the changes . 
But he added : `` We 're not talking about military intervention . '' 
Syria has been wrecked by unrest since last March , when protesters gathered calling for reform . 
Sporadic government crackdowns have followed , and the UN says more than 5,000 have died . 
The government in Damascus says it is fighting `` terrorists and armed gangs '' and claims that some 2,000 members of the security forces have been killed . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 
Deutsche Welle ` Flagrant interference ' 2 hrs ago 


By Jim Muir BBC News , Beirut The scars of the Syrian conflict are plain to see on the streets of Homs After more than 10 months and 5,000 deaths , an end to the crisis ravaging Syria remains a distant prospect . 
The only sure thing is that in the coming months , many more people will die violent deaths as the conflict becomes increasingly desperate and ugly . 
There is no visible way towards a resolution of the struggle between a regime determined to cling to power , and a revolt which long ago passed the point of no return . 
In the regional domain , the Arab League 's latest proposals have been rejected out of hand by Damascus , and dubbed `` unachievable '' by opposition activists . 
The new league formula for ending the crisis is likely to become the standard adopted by Syria 's international critics , which will generally increase the outside pressure on Damascus and its allies but is unlikely to produce practical results in the near future . 
The new Arab plan was modelled on the template fashioned for Yemen by the Gulf states , under which the embattled President Ali Abdullah Saleh left his country on Monday having devolved power to his deputy . 
The league suggested President Bashar al-Assad should do the same in Syria . 
Its plan called for a dialogue between regime and opposition , formation of a national unity government , election of a constituent assembly , a new constitution , a referendum , and free elections . 
It was immediately dismissed by the Syrian authorities as part of the `` ongoing conspiracy '' against the country , and a `` blatant interference '' in its affairs . 
Area : 5.25 million square miles Profile compiled by BBC Monitoring President Assad has long since launched what he calls a `` comprehensive reform process '' himself , involving the drafting of a new constitution and the holding of `` free '' multi-party elections in the coming months . 
While his plans have no credibility with the opposition or its external supporters , there was no way he was going to abandon them and accept outside diktats . 
The Arab plan also called for the regime and its opponents to begin a dialogue under League auspices within two weeks . 
That seems unlikely to happen . 
Neither side wants it . 
The regime is averse to holding talks other than under its own umbrella . 
Most activists reject talking to a regime which they say has spilled too much blood for reconciliation to be possible . 
The only part of the Arab League initiative that seems to have survived so far is the observer mission on the ground in Syria , whose mandate was renewed by the Arab foreign ministers for a second month on Sunday . 
The monitors ' report has not been made public , though their commander , Sudanese General Mohammad al-Dabi , spoke about it at length at a news conference in which he attributed violence to both sides . 
Recourse to the UN is a scenario long espoused by much of the Syrian opposition and many activists on the ground , who want outside intervention to establish safe havens which they could use as launching-pads for ` liberating ' the rest of the country '' He argued that the mission had helped bring down the level of bloodshed , although activists say more than 800 people have been killed by security forces since the observers began deploying in late December . 
The credibility of the mission - and the unity of purpose of the League effort - have already been diminished , certainly in the eyes of the Syrian regime , by Saudi Arabia 's withdrawal from the observer team . 
The mission could be terminally jeopardised if the League were to refer the whole affair to the UN Security Council , a step which now seems likely . 
The man leading the League campaign to end the Syrian crisis , the Prime Minister and Defense Minister of Qatar , Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim Al Thani , said that if Syria failed to adopt the new peace prescription , the League would hand the matter over to the Security Council . 
In such a situation , Damascus would clearly be tempted to retaliate by asking the observer teams to leave , since the initiative on which their presence was based would have ended . 
Syrian forces are digging in , with no clear way out of the conflict Recourse to the UN is a scenario long espoused by much of the Syrian opposition and many activists on the ground , who want outside intervention to establish safe havens which they could use as launching-pads for `` liberating '' the rest of the country . 
But there is no clear way forward in the international arena either . 
Divisions there were neatly underlined on Monday , when the European Union announced another round of sanctions against Syrian individuals and companies , while Russia was reported to have agreed to supply Damascus with 36 military jets -LRB- which will , however , have to be paid for -RRB- . 
How solid the regime 's pillars of support really are , and how much they will be eroded as conditions deteriorate , is hard to predict '' Russia has made it clear that it regards even condemnation of Syria at the UN Security Council , far less the imposition of sanctions or any form of military intervention , as a red line . 
A Council resolution would be needed to cover anything approaching the kind of intervention many of the regime 's opponents would like to see . 
With Russia and China poised to veto , that is simply not going to happen unless something changes radically . 
So for the moment at least , Syria 's fate seems to be left largely to the internal dynamics of the conflict . 
There , the trend in some areas has been increasingly towards an armed insurgency . 
Whole army units have yet to break off , and by and large the capital Damascus and the second city Aleppo remain relatively untroubled , although many people there are reported to feel that the tide is coming in . 
But in other areas , the impression is of a slow fraying of the regime 's authority and control . 
In parts of the third city , Homs , and other places such as Idlib province to the north-west , Zabadani in the west near Lebanon , and even some of the townships around Damascus , the control of security forces appears to be nominal , patchy or even non-existent . 
Whether this represents recognition of realities by the regime , or temporary restraint in deference to the presence of the Arab observers , is not clear . 
Since the monitors deployed , the authorities have made some gestures towards implementing the agreement covering their presence . 
They have released some detainees , allowed some foreign journalists in with constraints . 
The unrest has now spread to the outskirts of Damascus , where thousands attended the funerals of 12 people killed in the past three days in Douma -LRB- photo : AFP\/HO\/LCC -RRB- The mission commander , General al-Dabi , said that security forces had also stopped shooting at demonstrators , though activists dispute that . 
But the Arab League resolution on Sunday reported that there had been only `` partial and insufficient progress in implementing some of the commitments taken on by the Syrian government '' when it signed the protocol . 
It is hard to imagine that the monitors , if they stay , will be able , as per their mandate , to verify the regime 's complete compliance with the governing protocol which calls for all armed elements to be withdrawn , all detainees released , and all violence ended . 
More likely , perhaps , the situation will simply grind on , with more armed attacks by rebels - three Syrian Army brigadiers have been killed in the past week alone - and further repression by regime forces and their militia auxiliaries , the shabbiha , drawn almost entirely from Mr Assad 's Alawite community . 
It and other minorities such as the Christians have largely continued to support the regime against a revolt which is generally based among the poorer sections of the majority Sunnis . 
Fearing a takeover by Islamist militants , some middle-class Sunnis and merchants favored by the regime have also tended to stick with the regime . 
As the situation has worsened , confessional sentiment has also risen , aggravating fears of a slide into sectarian civil strife and disintegration . 
How solid the regime 's pillars of support really are , and how much they will be eroded as conditions deteriorate , is hard to predict , especially once economic factors kick in harder as sanctions are tightened . 
But barring an unpredictable collapse or an internal coup of some kind , the regime seems to have enough hard-core support - and the determination - to defend its grip on power for months to come , if not longer . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Army deserters have joined the uprising against President Assad The Arab League 's monitoring chief has warned of an escalation of violence in Syria in recent days , as the government intensifies its crackdown on protests . 
Gen Mustafa al-Dabi said the violence would make it more difficult for the two sides to engage in talks . 
Activists say 135 people have died in two days . 
A BBC reporter in Damascus says the regime appears to be losing control of rebellious areas of the capital . 
The UN Security Council is due to discuss a draft resolution on Syria . 
The BBC 's Jeremy Bowen in Damascus says opposition fighters have set up checkpoints and appear to move around freely in the suburbs of Douma and Saqba . 
President Bashar al-Assad 's forces still operate in these areas , but they do not appear to be able to maintain control , our correspondent says . 
Thousands of people attended the funeral of an anti-government protester killed on Thursday in Saqba . 
Jeremy Bowen BBC News , Damascus A convoy of journalists , without regime minders , went alone to Saqba , a poor district about 20 minutes from central Damascus , where a funeral was due to happen of a man killed by the Assad regime 's forces . 
Once we left the center we saw no regime security men . 
Then on the edge of Saqba we came upon several dozen armed and masked fighters from the Free Syria Army . 
Local people said that the intelligence and police conducted operations in the area , sometimes a couple of times a week , sometimes every night . 
It 's clear that the regime forces , when they deploy enough men , can enter the rebellious suburbs of Damascus . 
But they do not appear to have the force to hold them . 
This does not mean that the president is about to fall . 
He has his own hard-core support , and he also has well-armed forces , in and out of uniform . 
It looks as if Syria faces more blood and more bitterness . 
Mourners chanted : `` Better to die than be humiliated . '' 
Much of the violence in the past two days has focused on the central city of Homs . 
Activists say Homs was bombarded on Thursday and more than 30 people were killed . 
Rami Abdul-Rahman of the the UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights described the attack as `` a terrifying massacre '' . 
More deaths were reported in Homs on Friday , and the nearby city of Hama also came under assault with heavy gunfire and loud explosions . 
Earlier it was reported that 30 people had been killed in Hama , but rights groups now give a much lower figure . 
The Local Coordination Committees , a Syria-based network of activists , reported deaths in cities across the country . 
On Friday evening , the group said 135 people had been killed in the past two days . 
Gen Dabi , whose monitoring mission has been extended until late February , said violence had soared `` in a significant way '' in recent days . 
Earlier in the week the general had claimed that the Arab League mission had helped bring down violence in Syria . 
The mission was set up in late December to monitor Damascus ' compliance with a league plan to end the fighting . 
But six league members , including Saudi Arabia , have decided to withdraw their observers in protest at the continuing crackdown . 
It is thought that Friday 's Security Council meeting , announced by France 's UN mission on its Twitter page , will discuss an Arab League plan to end the violence . 
The plan calls for Syria to form a national unity government with the opposition within two months . 
The Damascus government has already rejected the initiative , calling it `` flagrant interference '' in Syria 's internal affairs . 
The UN has conceded it can not keep track of the death toll , which it estimated earlier as more than 5,400 people . 
The government says it is fighting `` terrorists and armed gangs '' and claims that some 2,000 members of the security forces have been killed since the unrest began last March . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


27 January 12 15:06 GMT BBC Middle East editor , Damascus The BBC has seen more evidence of the extent to which the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has lost control of sections of the poor suburbs of Damascus . 
We had no luck following Arab League observers . 
They drove round a middle class , largely Christian and largely pro-Assad neighborhood in the center of the capital , without stopping , before returning to their hotel with their escort of regime security men . 
So a convoy of journalists , without regime minders , went alone to Saqba , a poor district about 20 minutes from central Damascus - where a funeral was due to take place of a man killed by the Assad regime 's forces . 
Once we left the center we saw no regime security men . 
Then on the edge of Saqba we came upon several dozen armed and masked fighters from the Free Syria Army -LRB- FSA -RRB- . 
An older man - who said he had been a general in the Syrian army - was in charge . 
He was n't masked , had a stubbly , scarred face and was carrying a hand grenade . 
His men had sandbagged positions , and said they were protecting the local people . 
They took us deeper into Saqba where several thousand local men had gathered , marching through the streets and chanting anti-regime slogans , some calling for President Assad 's execution . 
They processed the body of the dead man on an open stretcher . 
Local people said that the intelligence services and police conducted operations in the area , sometimes a couple of times a week , sometimes every night . 
They pointed out bullet holes in lamp posts . 
It 's clear that the regime forces , when they deploy enough men , can enter the rebellious suburbs of Damascus . 
But they do not appear to have the force to hold them . 
It is equally clear that the only way the president can enforce his authority in Saqba , and other suburbs of the city , is through the barrel of a gun . 
His regime faces opposition in the capital that is increasingly armed and organised . 
This does not mean that the president is about to fall . 
He has his own hardcore support , based on minority communities - his own Alawites , Christians , some Druze and Kurds , and also well-off Sunnis . 
Mr Assad also has well-armed forces - in and out of uniform . 
It looks as if Syria faces more blood and more bitterness . 


Syria crisis : UN Security Council mulls Assad measures The BBC 's Jeremy Bowen in Damascus suburb where President Assad appears to be losing his control The UN Security Council has met to consider a draft resolution against Syria 's government . 
Activists and the Arab League urged the UN to take stronger action after a surge in violence this week in which dozens of people have died . 
The UK , France and Germany drafted a resolution with Arab states , supporting the League 's call for President Bashar al-Assad to hand power to a deputy . 
Russia , an ally of Mr Assad , has said it will not back the text . 
Russia 's UN envoy Vitaly Churkin told reporters after the meeting in New York that the draft resolution was unacceptable , but Moscow was ready to engage in further talks . 
He said Russia had set out its `` red lines '' and that the resolution should not contain any threat of sanctions or an arms embargo . 
Jeremy Bowen BBC News , Damascus A convoy of journalists , without regime minders , went alone to Saqba , a poor district about 20 minutes from central Damascus , where a funeral was due to happen of a man killed by the Assad regime 's forces . 
Once we left the center , we saw no regime security men . 
Then , on the edge of Saqba , we came upon several dozen armed and masked fighters from the Free Syria Army . 
Local people said that the intelligence and police conducted operations in the area , sometimes a couple of times a week , sometimes every night . 
It 's clear that the regime forces , when they deploy enough men , can enter the rebellious suburbs of Damascus . 
But they do not appear to have the force to hold them . 
This does not mean that the president is about to fall . 
He has his own hard-core support , and he also has well-armed forces , in and out of uniform . 
It looks as if Syria faces more blood and more bitterness . 
The draft `` not only ignored our red lines but also added some new elements which we find unacceptable as a matter of principle , '' AFP news agency reported him as saying . 
`` The Security Council can not go about imposing solutions in crisis situations in various countries of the world . '' 
The BBC 's UN correspondent , Barbara Plett , says Russia will not support any measure that could mean regime change . 
Moscow was also concerned about a warning of further measures if Syria does not comply with the resolution , fearing that this could open the door to outside intervention , our correspondent says . 
Russia and China vetoed a previous draft resolution against Syria late last year . 
Western nations have been hoping that Arab League support for this resolution will soften Russian resistance . 
The current draft , presented to the council by Morocco , largely supports a plan outlined by the Arab League earlier this week calling for Mr Assad to hand authority to a deputy , who would form a national unity government with the opposition within two months . 
The draft resolution calls for further measures if the Syrian government does not comply with the call for political transition . 
The council will not vote on the resolution until next week . 
`` There is now a chance that the Security Council will finally take a clear stand on Syria . 
That is long overdue , '' said German Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle . 
The French ambassador to the UN , Gerrard Araud described the situation in Syria as a major crisis . 
`` The country is sinking into civil war . 
We are desperately looking for a political solution , '' he said . 
`` We have here the League of Arab States which is proposing a solution . 
So our reaction is simply to support it , but again , there is nothing else . '' 
Syria 's UN ambassador , Bashar Ja'afari , expressed anger towards the states that drafted the resolution . 
`` They are talking about my country without consulting us , without sharing with us their concerns , their remarks , '' he said . 
`` They deal with us as if we are a former colony , that we should subjugate ourselves to their will . 
They are wrong and they will be disappointed . '' 
The UN meeting comes amid a spike in violence across Syria , with activists reporting 135 people killed in the past two days . 
Gen Mustafa al-Dabi , head of the Arab League 's monitoring mission , said violence had soared `` in a significant way '' in recent days . 
Earlier in the week , the general had claimed that the Arab League mission had helped reduce the level of violence in Syria . 
Opposition forces have set up checkpoints in parts of the capital , and correspondents say forces loyal to Mr Assad appear unable to maintain control . 
The UN has conceded it can not keep track of the death toll , which it estimated as more than 5,400 people since the unrest began last March . 
The government says it is fighting `` terrorists and armed gangs '' and claims that some 2,000 members of the security forces have been killed . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


28 January 12 22:46 GMT The Arab League says it is suspending its controversial monitoring mission in Syria because of the growing violence , although observers will remain in the country . 
The mission was set up in December to monitor compliance by Damascus with the league 's plan to end bloodshed . 
Several countries have now withdrawn their monitors because of the violence . 
Syria has accused the Arab League of trying to increase the pressure for foreign intervention . 
`` Given the critical deterioration of the situation in Syria and the continued use of violence ... it has been decided to immediately stop the work of the Arab League 's mission to Syria , '' Secretary General Nabil el-Arabi said in a statement . 
He said the issue would now be discussed at the league 's council . 
`` Syria is surprised and regrets the decision taken by el-Arabi to suspend the observer mission after having decided -LRB- last week -RRB- to extend it for a month , '' state news agency Sana said on its website . 
`` This will have a negative impact and put pressure on -LRB- UN Security Council -RRB- deliberations with the aim of calling for foreign intervention and encouraging armed groups to increase violence , '' a Syrian official told the state channel , Syria TV . 
On Tuesday the Arab League extended the mission for another month . 
But Saudi Arabia and other Gulf Arab states withdrew their monitors , reducing the total number to 110 . 
The mission has been criticised as toothless by Syria 's opposition . 
BBC Middle East analyst Sebastian Usher says it is not a big surprise that the mission has been halted , as activists and human rights groups have accused Syrian President Bashar al-Assad of using it to buy time . 
Conservative estimates are that about 200 people have been killed since the mission was renewed for a second month on Tuesday . 
The diplomatic focus now seems to be switching to the UN Security Council , with speculation that it may vote on a draft resolution on Syria in the coming days - although Russia still opposes the move . 
The council met earlier this week to discuss the document drafted by Arab states , the UK , France and Germany . 
Those countries supported the league 's call for President Assad to hand power to a deputy , who would form a national unity government with the opposition within two months . 
The draft resolution also calls for further measures if the Syrian government does not comply . 
But Russia , an ally of Mr Assad , has said it will not back the text . 
Mr Arabi is due to address the Security Council on Tuesday . 
He has also been talking directly to Russian officials to try to persuade them to drop their opposition . 
Meanwhile , the opposition Syrian National Council -LRB- SNC -RRB- urged Syria 's diaspora across the world to stage protests outside Russia 's diplomatic missions , the AFP news agency reports . 
The SNC also accused Iran of `` participation '' in the violent crackdown on protests across Syria . 
Activists in Syria say 30 people have been killed across Syria so far on Saturday . 
The Local Co-ordination Committees , a network of anti-government groups , reported fighting and shelling in several cities , including Damascus . 
The group also said that a colonel and 300 troops had defected to the rebel Free Syrian Army near Damascus . 
The UN says more than 5,000 people have been killed since protests against the government of President Assad erupted last March . 
Syrian officials say about 2,000 members of the security forces have been killed in the unrest , which has become increasingly violent as defectors from the army join the opposition . 
These claims have not been independently verified . 


Syrian activists want the international community to help end the violence The UN Security Council is considering a draft resolution on Syria . 
An Arab League delegation will travel to New York this week to address Security Council members . 
Syria said it was surprised that the mission had been suspended and that it was a matter of `` regret '' . 
`` This will have a negative impact and put pressure on -LRB- Security Council -RRB- deliberations with the aim of calling for foreign intervention and encouraging armed groups to increase violence , '' a Syrian official told the state channel , Syria TV . 
Jim Muir BBC News , Beirut The freezing of the Arab League 's observer mission will throw the spotlight even more on the intensifying diplomacy at the UN Security Council . 
It signals that regional efforts to halt the carnage have failed and the only alternative is to internationalise the crisis - something Damascus has been eager to avoid . 
It made clear its strong displeasure at the suspension of the observers . 
New York will now be the focus of concerted lobbying , with the western powers , the Arab League and the Syrian opposition all trying to persuade the Russians and others not to block a resolution adopting the Arab peace plan as the way forward . 
The bottom line remains that even if a resolution is passed next week , it will not have teeth in the form of mandatory sanctions , far less providing cover for a Libya-style external intervention . 
But the pressure is building up , both on Syria itself and on the international allies such as Russia and China who have so far staunchly protected it even from censure at the Council . 
Earlier on Saturday , Secretary General Nabil el-Arabi said : `` Given the critical deterioration of the situation in Syria and the continued use of violence ... it has been decided to immediately stop the work of the Arab League 's mission to Syria . '' 
The suspension coincided with a major new escalation in the fighting . 
Government forces have moved to retake several eastern suburbs of Damascus seized by defecting soldiers , activists said . 
They said at least 12 people had been killed and 30 injured . 
Rami Abdul Rahman , head of the UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , says Saturday 's fighting was `` the most intense near the capital since the uprising began '' . 
`` The Syrian regime is trying to finish the uprising militarily now that the case is being taken to the United Nations , '' he added . 
The Arab League says its monitors will remain at their hotels inside Syria for the time being . 
The league 's mission was established in December to monitor Syria 's compliance with a plan to end the bloodshed . 
Arab countries voted on Tuesday to extend the mission for another month . 
Since then conservative estimates say about 200 people have been killed . 
As the violence escalated several Arab Gulf countries - including Saudi Arabia - decided to withdraw their observers . 
26 December : Arab League observers arrive in Syria , fanning out to troubled cities within days 29 December : Mission head Gen Mustafa al-Dabi says he saw `` nothing frightening '' during a visit , sparking outcry from activists 5 January : Exiled Syrian opposition leader Burhan Ghalioun tells BBC mission must prove itself or leave 11 January : Former mission member calls league mission `` a farce '' 22 January : Mission extended for another month 24 January : Gulf Co-operation Council pulls out of mission over crackdown The diplomatic focus now seems to be switching to the UN Security Council , with speculation that it may vote on a draft resolution on Syria in the coming days - although Russia still opposes the move . 
The council met earlier this week to discuss the document drafted by Arab states , the UK , France and Germany . 
Those countries supported the league 's call for President Assad to hand power to a deputy , who would form a national unity government with the opposition within two months . 
The draft resolution also calls for further measures if the Syrian government does not comply . 
But Russia , an ally of Mr Assad , has said it will not back the text . 
Human rights activist Ghias al-Jundi : `` The Arab League has prolonged the Syrian crisis '' Mr Arabi is to address the Security Council on Tuesday . 
He has also been talking directly to Russian officials to try to persuade them to drop their opposition . 
Meanwhile , the opposition Syrian National Council -LRB- SNC -RRB- urged Syria 's diaspora across the world to stage protests outside Russia 's diplomatic missions , the AFP news agency reports . 
The UN says more than 5,000 people have been killed since protests against the government of President Bashar al-Assad first erupted last March . 
Syrian officials say about 2,000 members of the security forces have been killed in the unrest , which has become increasingly violent as defectors from the army join the opposition . 
These claims have not been independently verified . 
Are you in Syria or the wider region ? 
What is your reaction to the Arab League 's decision to suspend its mission ? 
You can send us your views using the form below . 
If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on . 
In some cases a selection of your comments will be published , displaying your name as you provide it and location , unless you state otherwise . 
Your contact details will never be published . 
When sending us pictures , video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others , take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws . 
Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Impasse at UN Security Council debate on Syria violence US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton says people have watched events in Syria unfold `` in horror '' A day of debate at the United Nations Security Council meeting on Syria has ended without agreement . 
The council was discussing whether to adopt an Arab League plan calling for an end to violence and for President Bashar al-Assad to stand down . 
Qatar 's prime minister urged council members to take action against what he called Mr Assad 's `` killing machine '' . 
But China and Russia said the plan amounts to regime change and remain opposed to the Arab League proposal . 
`` I do n't think Russian policy is about asking people to step down , '' Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said . 
`` Yes , we condemn strongly the use of force by government forces against civilians . 
But we condemn in the same strong way the activities of the armed extremist groups who attack government positions , '' Mr Lavrov added . 
`` China ... resolutely opposes pushing for forced regime change in Syria , as it violates the United Nations Charter and the basic norms guiding the practice of international relations , '' Chinese Ambassador to the United Nations Li Baodong said at the meeting , China 's state-run news agency Xinhua reported . 
Barbara Plett BBC News , United Nations The Russian ambassador Vitaly Churkin struck a conciliatory note at Tuesday 's debate , saying the Security Council can and should reach a consensus on Syria . 
That is what Western diplomats hope can be achieved now on the new UN draft resolution endorsing the Arab League peace plan . 
Russia is unlikely to accept the resolution 's threat of `` further measures '' if Syria does not comply with its demands . 
But it would probably be easier for the West to drop that than tinker with the fundamentals of the Arabs ' political roadmap . 
And therein lies the problem , because Russia continues to insist that the Arab call for Bashar al-Assad to hand power to his deputy - angrily rejected by Syria - amounts to imposing a political solution on the regime . 
The Council is not in the business of deciding which king or prime minister should step down , Mr Churkin told journalists . 
Any solution has to have the consent of all the parties , he said , including Mr Assad . 
He implied that the thundering denunciation of government violence in Arab appeals to the Council did not truly reflect the conclusion of a report by Arab monitors , which also cites attacks by armed groups , and notes that in some cases reports of violence and deaths were exaggerated . 
US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton later suggested negotiations would continue over the text . 
`` We will have a concerted effort over the next days to reach agreement in the Security Council to put forth a resolution that sends a message to President Assad and his regime , '' she said , according to AP . 
The BBC 's Barbara Plett at the UN says Western nations had been hoping that Tuesday 's session would soften Russian resistance . 
In a note of optimism , Russian UN envoy Vitaly Churkin said the draft resolution contained elements of an earlier Russian text rejected by Western powers and the Arab League as too weak . 
`` This gives rise for hope , '' he said . 
`` We hope that the council will come to consensus on the Syrian issue , as is not only possible but also necessary . '' 
The UN estimates more than 5,400 people have been killed since the unrest began last March . 
The violence appears to be intensifying - more than 100 people were reported to have been killed across the country on Monday and at least 37 people on Tuesday , say rights groups . 
The draft resolution strongly condemns human rights abuses by the Syrian government and calls on all sides to cease the use of violence . 
It calls on countries to stop the flow of arms to Syria , but does not impose an arms embargo . 
Calls on member states to take necessary steps to prevent flow of arms into Syria , without imposing an embargo Demands an immediate end to violence on all sides and calls for violators of human rights to be held accountable Calls on President Assad to hand power to a deputy and make way for free elections Speaking at the start of the UN debate , Qatari Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim al-Thani said all previous initiatives had failed `` because the Syrian government failed to make any sincere effort to co-operate with us and the only solution available to it was to kill its own people '' . 
`` Bloodshed continued and the killing machine is still at work , '' he said , urging members to act but stressing that it was for the Syrian people to decide whether they wanted a change in leadership . 
US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said during the debate that the situation in Syria risked spinning out of control , but that Mr Assad 's `` reign of terror '' would end . 
`` The question for us is how many more innocent civilians will die before this country is able to move forward , '' she said . 
Mrs Clinton dismissed concerns that Syria could follow the same pattern as Libya and result in military intervention . 
She said the Arab League 's plan , under which Mr Assad would hand over power to his deputy , represents `` the best effects and efforts of Syria 's neighbors to chart a way forward and deserves a chance to work '' . 
Syrian ambassador Bashar Jaafari said his country would `` stand firm '' `` The alternative - spurning the Arab League , abandoning the Syrian people , emboldening the dictator - would compound this tragedy and would mark a failure of our shared responsibility and shake the credibility of the United Nations Security Council . '' 
Arab League Secretary-General Nabil el-Arabi said the plan aimed to avoid foreign military intervention . 
On Saturday , the Arab League announced it was suspending its month-old monitoring mission in Syria because of an upsurge of violence . 
UK Foreign Secretary William Hague said the League ' s plan was the only `` credible and viable '' way to stop the `` horrifying violence '' in Syria , and would mark the start of an inclusive political process . 
`` How long do Syrian families have to live in fear that their children will be killed or tortured , before the Security Council will pass a meaningful resolution ? 
, '' Mr Hague asked . 
France called for an end to the `` scandalous silence '' of the UN , and said it must `` assume its responsibilities toward a suffering people '' . 
But Syria 's representative at the UN , Bashar Jaafari , rejected the proposals , saying Syria was protecting its security and would `` stand firm in confronting its enemies '' . 
There were further reports of violence on Tuesday evening , with anti-government activists saying troops had again attacked suburbs in the capital , Damascus . 
The Local Co-Ordination Committee -LRB- LCC -RRB- said 37 people had been killed on Tuesday , including two children and five soldiers who had defected from the army . 
There are also reports of heavy explosions near the hill town of Rankous , just to the north of Damascus . 
Government forces are said to have arrested dozens of young men . 
In the opposition stronghold of Homs , the main crude oil pipeline feeding the refinery was set on fire by an explosion . 
Opposition activists say government artillery set off the blaze in order to deprive residents of heating fuel . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


01 February 12 04:27 GMT A day of debate at the United Nations Security Council meeting on Syria has ended without agreement . 
The council was discussing whether to adopt an Arab League plan calling for an end to violence and for President Bashar al-Assad to stand down . 
Qatar 's prime minister urged council members to take action against what he called Mr Assad 's `` killing machine '' . 
But China and Russia said the plan amounts to regime change and remain opposed to the Arab League proposal . 
`` I do n't think Russian policy is about asking people to step down , '' Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said . 
`` Yes , we condemn strongly the use of force by government forces against civilians . 
But we condemn in the same strong way the activities of the armed extremist groups who attack government positions , '' Mr Lavrov added . 
`` China ... resolutely opposes pushing for forced regime change in Syria , as it violates the United Nations Charter and the basic norms guiding the practice of international relations , '' Chinese Ambassador to the United Nations Li Baodong said at the meeting , China 's state-run news agency Xinhua reported . 
US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton later suggested negotiations would continue over the text . 
`` We will have a concerted effort over the next days to reach agreement in the Security Council to put forth a resolution that sends a message to President Assad and his regime , '' she said , according to AP . 
The BBC 's Barbara Plett at the UN says Western nations had been hoping that Tuesday 's session would soften Russian resistance . 
In a note of optimism , Russian UN envoy Vitaly Churkin said the draft resolution contained elements of an earlier Russian text rejected by Western powers and the Arab League as too weak . 
`` This gives rise for hope , '' he said . 
`` We hope that the council will come to consensus on the Syrian issue , as is not only possible but also necessary . '' 
The UN estimates more than 5,400 people have been killed since the unrest began last March . 
The violence appears to be intensifying - more than 100 people were reported to have been killed across the country on Monday and at least 37 people on Tuesday , say rights groups . 
The draft resolution strongly condemns human rights abuses by the Syrian government and calls on all sides to cease the use of violence . 
It calls on countries to stop the flow of arms to Syria , but does not impose an arms embargo . 
Speaking at the start of the UN debate , Qatari Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim al-Thani said all previous initiatives had failed `` because the Syrian government failed to make any sincere effort to co-operate with us and the only solution available to it was to kill its own people '' . 
`` Bloodshed continued and the killing machine is still at work , '' he said , urging members to act but stressing that it was for the Syrian people to decide whether they wanted a change in leadership . 
US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said during the debate that the situation in Syria risked spinning out of control , but that Mr Assad 's `` reign of terror '' would end . 
`` The question for us is how many more innocent civilians will die before this country is able to move forward , '' she said . 
Mrs Clinton dismissed concerns that Syria could follow the same pattern as Libya and result in military intervention . 
She said the Arab League 's plan , under which Mr Assad would hand over power to his deputy , represents `` the best effects and efforts of Syria 's neighbors to chart a way forward and deserves a chance to work '' . 
`` The alternative - spurning the Arab League , abandoning the Syrian people , emboldening the dictator - would compound this tragedy and would mark a failure of our shared responsibility and shake the credibility of the United Nations Security Council . '' 
Arab League Secretary-General Nabil el-Arabi said the plan aimed to avoid foreign military intervention . 
On Saturday , the Arab League announced it was suspending its month-old monitoring mission in Syria because of an upsurge of violence . 
UK Foreign Secretary William Hague said the League ' s plan was the only `` credible and viable '' way to stop the `` horrifying violence '' in Syria , and would mark the start of an inclusive political process . 
`` How long do Syrian families have to live in fear that their children will be killed or tortured , before the Security Council will pass a meaningful resolution ? 
, '' Mr Hague asked . 
France called for an end to the `` scandalous silence '' of the UN , and said it must `` assume its responsibilities toward a suffering people '' . 
But Syria 's representative at the UN , Bashar Jaafari , rejected the proposals , saying Syria was protecting its security and would `` stand firm in confronting its enemies '' . 
There were further reports of violence on Tuesday evening , with anti-government activists saying troops had again attacked suburbs in the capital , Damascus . 
The Local Co-Ordination Committee -LRB- LCC -RRB- said 37 people had been killed on Tuesday , including two children and five soldiers who had defected from the army . 
There are also reports of heavy explosions near the hill town of Rankous , just to the north of Damascus . 
Government forces are said to have arrested dozens of young men . 
In the opposition stronghold of Homs , the main crude oil pipeline feeding the refinery was set on fire by an explosion . 
Opposition activists say government artillery set off the blaze in order to deprive residents of heating fuel . 


UN Syria text drops call for Assad power handover Thousands have died in more than 10 months of unrest in Syria - mostly unarmed protesters The Russians have argued that this demand would impose regime change . 
However the new text still supports what it calls the League 's `` decision '' to facilitate political transition . 
Western diplomats say this means that while the draft no longer mentions the details of the Arab plan , it still clearly backs the substance . 
The revised draft - seen by the BBC - also removes a paragraph calling on member states to act to prevent the flow of arms into Syria . 
This was another clause opposed by Russia even though it does not impose an arms embargo . 
Ambassadors began intense negotiations on Wednesday , after a high-level meeting urging the council to back the Arab plan to end the Syrian crisis . 
Diplomatic sources say Western states may support the new text - drawn up by Morocco - if it gets a yes vote from Russia , rather than an abstention , according to the BBC 's Barbara Plett at the UN headquarters in New York . 
As of today there are no restrictions on the delivery of weapons and we must fulfil our obligations '' End Quote Anatoly Antonov Russian deputy defense minister Human rights groups and activists say more than 7,000 people have been killed by Syrian security forces since the uprising began in March . 
On Wednesday , diplomats said discussions had been positive , with US Ambassador Susan Rice saying talks had been conducted in a `` constructive and roll-up-your-sleeves manner '' . 
However , she also admitted that the call for Mr Assad to delegate powers to his deputy remained `` one of the more difficult issues '' . 
Russian ambassador Vitaly Churkin also said progress had been made , saying : `` I think we have a much better understanding of what we need to do to reach consensus . '' 
US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton had earlier said Council members must decide whether they supported the Syrian people or `` a brutal , dictatorial regime '' . 
The Arab League suspended its monitoring mission last month after it failed to stop the violence Russia , a key ally of Syria , has continued to send weapons for use by the Assad government despite the uprising . 
In Moscow , a top defense ministry official said there were no plans to halt such deliveries . 
`` As of today there are no restrictions on the delivery of weapons and we must fulfil our obligations '' , said Deputy Defense Minister Anatoly Antonov , according to Russian news agencies . 
`` And this what we are doing . '' 
Meanwhile , security forces in the central Syrian town of Hama have closed public squares and set up checkpoints . 
The move came after protesters splashed red paint in the streets to mark 30 years since an uprising there was crushed by Mr Assad 's father Hafez , with the deaths of at least 10,000 people . 
`` They want to kill the memory and they do not want us to remember , '' said an activist in the city , where residents said tanks blocked main squares to prevent demonstrations . 
`` But we will not accept it , '' the activist told Reuters news agency . 
Mr Assad 's forces have been fighting back against rebels - in recent days claiming back suburbs of Damascus and areas north-west of the capital . 
At least 43 people were killed by security forces on Wednesday , according to one activist group . 
The UN stopped estimating the death toll in Syria after it passed 5,400 in January , saying it was too difficult to confirm . 
The government says at least 2,000 members of the security forces have been killed combating `` armed gangs and terrorists '' . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


By PJ Crowley Former US Assistant Secretary of State The narratives used were quite familiar : defending the status quo , supporting the aspirations for revolutionary reform and demanding responsible governance in accordance with international norms . 
But the key players - the United States , Russia and the Arab League - had all traded places . 
As if in the midst of a game of musical chairs , they were all advancing policy prescriptions markedly different than those held in previous decades , even in previous months . 
During most of the Cold War the United States was , by and large , the staunch defender of the status quo and supported existing governments regardless of how autocratic , corrupt or unpopular , as long as they sided with the `` free '' world . 
All options were binary . 
The watchword was stability . 
Knowns trumped unknowns , as Donald Rumsfeld might say , whether known or not . 
The US pushed political transformations everywhere else . 
But in the Middle East there were always more compelling priorities : the need for stable governments to offset revolutionary Iran ; fears of weapons of mass destruction -LRB- Iraq was about democracy only when the WMD went missing -RRB- ; energy markets to reassure ; and then terrorism to contain . 
Reform , let alone genuine democracy , was an aspiration , but would follow other developments , such as Middle East peace . 
Hillary Clinton has spoken about the importance of respecting the aspirations of the Syrian people To its credit , as the dictatorial dominos wobbled across the region , there was a brief hesitation and then a dramatic shift . 
US policy left its traditional walled compound , moved to the street and embraced the unknown -LRB- except in Bahrain where , because of Iran , the binary logic still holds -RRB- . 
Now Russia is the great defender of the status quo . 
One reason for that is commercial : Russia resents the fact that every time the UN is asked to take action , it is asked to pay the piper , especially the forfeiture of lucrative contracts involving Moscow 's shrinking armaments industry . 
Russia has been losing market share and influence in the Middle East since the end of the Cold War , notably in Iran -LRB- where Russia has actually been responsive to nuclear and weapons concerns -RRB- , Iraq -LRB- now buying American -RRB- , and Libya -LRB- which will undoubtedly shop in the future in Europe or the United States -RRB- . 
Syria is a last bastion and Moscow has drawn its line in the sand . 
Moscow has been an Assad family friend for decades and a major investor in Syria . 
Outgoing Russian President Dmitry Medvedev signed a lucrative arms deal with Syria in 2010 . 
Hence , Russia has made it clear it will run cover for its valued client , for as long as it can , blocking significant action beyond diplomatic rhetoric . 
Friends do n't let friends get overthrown , especially after Libya . 
As Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said this week from Australia , `` Regime change is not our profession . '' 
Russia was caught off guard in March 2011 by the unprecedented and bold Arab League call for a humanitarian intervention to protect the Libyan people . 
Experts fear the violence in Syria may tip into a protracted struggle or civil war Like China , it is no fan of the concept of a `` responsibility to protect '' and resists any notion that the international community can intervene in the sovereign affairs of nation states . 
If Libya is a model of effective multilateral action , Russia will exercise its veto if necessary to ensure it does n't happen again - or at least any time soon . 
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton spoke at the UN this week about the aspirations of the Syrian people . 
`` Syria belongs to 23 million people , '' she said , `` not to one man or his family . '' 
Russia does not have an aspirational foreign policy . 
Its real focus right now is the political fortunes of Vladimir Putin , not Bashar al-Assad . 
Unexpected and unwelcome protests in Russia have challenged the legitimacy of Mr Putin 's arranged plan to return to the presidency for presumably another 12 years . 
Any UN resolution that appears to advocate term limits , much less regime change , will strike Russia too close to home . 
Of all the positional shifts , arguably the most remarkable is that of the Arab League , historically a steadfast supporter of non-interference in the internal affairs of other states , most notably its fellow members . 
The call for Mr Assad to give way is out of character , but reflects the pressure these conservative governments feel to respond in a meaningful way to the clear regional call for change . 
For the Arab League , Libya was a relatively easy lift - no-one liked Gaddafi and his antics . 
Libya was always a fringe regional player . 
Syria , on the other hand , is part of the region 's center . 
One factor behind the Arab League 's shift is personal : Bashar al-Assad has ignored the advice of his peers repeatedly over the past several months , declining to present even the pretence of co-operation with the Arab League observer mission . 
Another consideration is containment . 
The expanding influence of Iran , with Syria 's help , is a major concern among the Sunni-dominated governments in the neighborhood . 
Whether Syria is yet a civil war , it is already a proxy war in the struggle between Iran and Saudi Arabia for ascendancy in the Gulf . 
A final factor is dynamic of the Arab awakening . 
The Arab League , like the US , has begrudgingly recognized that the status quo is unsustainable . 
All governments have taken some steps - modest in most cases - towards reform . 
Regional leaders are acutely aware of Mr Assad 's boast a year ago that the Arab Spring wo n't visit Syria . 
They all know deep down that this is fundamentally not about foreign conspiracies . 
They recognize in some way that they can no longer take their legitimacy to govern for granted . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Russia threatens UN veto over Syria resolution Russian UN envoy Vitaly Churkin addressed the council in a closed-door meeting , diplomats say Russia has threatened to veto a UN Security Council resolution on Syria if it is put to a vote on Friday , diplomats say . 
Russian officials say they need more time to consult Moscow , BBC UN correspondent Barbara Plett reports . 
Meanwhile , a new draft resolution is to be sent back to governments for further deliberation . 
The wording has already been watered down in an apparent attempt to overcome Russian objections . 
The new text drops explicit calls for President Bashar al-Assad to yield powers to a deputy to oversee a political transition . 
His stepping down is a key part of an Arab League plan to end the Syria crisis , but Moscow insists such a move would amount to regime change imposed from outside . 
Diplomats said Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin made the latest announcement at a closed-door meeting of the council . 
Mr Churkin described Thursday 's negotiations as `` something of a roller-coaster . '' 
`` We have a text which we are going to report to our capitals , '' he said . 
Earlier on Thursday , some envoys said the council was close to agreement on the draft . 
Western nations tried to accommodate Russian concerns by dropping explicit reference to the power transfer , but to no avail . 
So they have drawn up a new text and are sending it to their governments to make the difficult decision . 
The sticking point is whether the council should fully support the Arab plan or simply note it . 
Western states insist on the former , Russia prefers the latter . 
The sponsors of the resolution are putting the new text into a vote-ready format , apparently as a pressure tactic to persuade Russia to agree . 
But diplomats said further negotiation is still possible . 
Despite the latest Russian objections , our correspondent says a vote-ready version of the draft resolution - which contains only a few more small changes - will be sent to governments . 
It is hoped that high level decisions can then be taken that would allow a vote as soon as possible , she adds . 
Colombian UN ambassador Nestor Osorio told journalists that talks would continue on Friday . 
The UN Security Council began negotiations on Wednesday after a high-level meeting urged the council to back the Arab League plan . 
Russia , a key ally of Syria , has continued to supply weapons to the Assad government despite the uprising . 
Human rights groups and activists say more than 7,000 people have been killed by Syrian security forces since the uprising began in March . 
The UN stopped estimating the death toll in Syria after it passed 5,400 in January , saying it was too difficult to confirm . 
The government says at least 2,000 members of the security forces have been killed combating `` armed gangs and terrorists '' . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


03 February 12 17:03 GMT Russia 's deputy foreign minister says his country `` can not support '' a draft United Nations Security Council resolution on Syria . 
According to the Interfax news agency , Gennady Gatilov said that despite changes that took some of its concerns into account , Russia could not support the text in its current form . 
`` This is not enough for us , '' he said . 
The resolution , drafted by European and Arab countries , endorses an Arab League plan for Syria . 
That league 's plan calls on Mr Assad to hand over power to a deputy to oversee a political transition . 
The watered-down UN text drops explicit calls for the president to step aside , which were included in an earlier draft . 
However the document still `` fully supports '' what it calls the league 's decision `` to facilitate a political transition '' . 
Western diplomats say this means that it still clearly backs the substance of the Arab plan . 
It is not clear whether Mr Gatilov 's comments mean that Moscow , which has a permanent seat on the UN Security Council , would veto the resolution or abstain from voting . 
Russia , a long-standing ally of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad , has opposed any suggestion that the resolution could be seen as backing for regime change in Damascus , and demanded guarantees that it would not lead to outside military intervention . 
Moscow has continued to supply weapons to Syria despite the uprising there . 
BBC UN correspondent Barbara Plett says a senior Western official there had expressed cautious optimism that Russia had received the assurances it wanted in order not to veto the resolution . 
Negotiations between diplomats at the UN headquarters in New York over the past few days were described as `` a roller-coaster '' by Russia 's ambassador , Vitaly Churkin . 
In Syria itself , 18 people were killed in clashes across the country on Friday , according to activists . 
Thousands of people demonstrated in Hama to mark 30 years since the country 's worst massacre of recent times - when more than 10,000 people were killed in the city . 
Hafez al-Assad , the father of the current leader Bashar , sent the troops there in 1982 to put down a revolt by the outlawed Muslim Brotherhood . 
Syria has been convulsed by nationwide protests against Bashar al-Assad 's regime for almost a year . 
The United Nations stopped estimating the death toll from the uprising after it passed 5,400 in January , saying it was too difficult to confirm numbers . 
The Syrian government says at least 2,000 members of its security forces have been killed combating `` armed gangs and terrorists '' . 


05 February 12 01:10 GMT Fresh protests have taken place outside the Syrian embassy in London amid reports that at least 55 people were killed by shelling in the country . 
Twenty two people were arrested on Saturday after crowds had initially gathered during the early hours , with some trying to enter the building . 
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office condemned the attack on the embassy and said security was being reviewed . 
Foreign Secretary William Hague said he was `` horrified '' at reports from Syria . 
His comments come as an Arab and Western-backed resolution condemning the violent crackdown in Syria was vetoed at the UN Security Council by Russia and China . 
Mr Hague said he `` unequivocally '' condemned the use of tanks , mortars and artillery in civilian areas in the city of Homs . 
`` It is all the more chilling that these events occurred on the 30th anniversary of the Hama massacre , in which it is estimated that 20,000 people were killed , '' he added . 
`` The Syrian regime 's actions display President Assad 's cold-blooded cynicism in the face of mounting international pressure for the UN Security Council to do its utmost to end the bloodshed in Syria . '' 
After the UN vote , Mr Hague issued a statement to say that the veto `` lets the Syrian people down and will only encourage President Assad 's brutal regime to increase the killing '' . 
`` It did not impose any sanctions , nor did it authorise military action . 
At every stage we worked to accommodate the concerns of some Council members and tabled a text which did just that , '' he added . 
In London , crowds of people , chanting and waving flags , turned up outside the embassy in Belgrave Square calling for the Syrian Ambassador to be expelled by the UK . 
Two police officers were taken to hospital with minor injuries after an attempt was made to break in overnight . 
Scotland Yard said of the arrests , 21 were on suspicion of public order offences including entering the embassy , and another was on suspicion of assaulting a police officer . 
During the day , rocks and bottles were thrown at the building , which was being guarded by police . 
The clashes came as protesters forced their way into four other Syrian embassies in European and Middle Eastern cities . 
The FCO said the Met were reviewing security arrangements at the Embassy and would take `` appropriate action '' to ensure the safety of its staff inside . 
`` The UK takes seriously its obligations to protect the staff and premises of foreign states in the UK , '' a spokesman said . 
`` The FCO commends the swift action of the Metropolitan Police who have arrested a number of the protesters involved in the break-in . 
`` Our thoughts are with the friends and family of the two officers who were hospitalised as a result of injuries sustained while responding to the protests . '' 


Syria : UN veto gives Assad licence to kill - opposition The BBC 's Paul Wood and cameraman Fred Scott were smuggled into Homs The Syrian National Council , an opposition umbrella group , urged Moscow and Beijing to change their minds . 
The veto caused anger among Western diplomats . 
Activists earlier attacked Syrian embassies across the world . 
In Syria , dozens were reported killed on Saturday in one of the bloodiest days since protests began last March . 
Rebel groups and opposition activists said the regime launched an assault on the city of Homs on Friday night using mortar and tanks to bombard civilian areas . 
One opposition group said it had confirmed 62 deaths in Homs , while other organizations gave death tolls in excess of 200 . 
Activists said mass protests in solidarity with Homs residents had continued overnight in cities around the country . 
Jonathan Marcus BBC Diplomatic Correspondent The West is far more enthusiastic than the Russians about the upheavals in the Middle East . 
Moscow has welcomed the advent of the Arab Spring in cautious terms , concerned by instability and the potential overthrow of established diplomatic patterns . 
In the West there has been an altogether more jubilant tone . 
Syria is seen as the next outdated regime to fall and its departure would be a blow to Iran . 
With the Assad regime struggling for its survival , Moscow may find that its efforts to manage regime change in Syria is just as fruitless as the diplomatic pressures coming from the West and the Arab League . 
In a statement , the Syrian National Council condemned Moscow and Beijing for obstructing the passage of the draft resolution . 
`` The SNC holds both governments accountable for the escalation of killings and genocide , and considers this irresponsible step a licence for the Syrian regime to kill without being held accountable , '' the statement said . 
The resolution , which called for a `` Syrian-led political transition to a democratic , plural political system '' , was backed by the 13 other members of the Security Council . 
The veto drew an angry response from American UN envoy Susan Rice , who said that she was '' disgusted '' and said Russia and China would have blood on their hands . 
UK Foreign Secretary William Hague said the two countries were making a `` great mistake '' , accusing them of `` turning their backs on the Arab world '' . 
Tunisia , which had already indicated its intention to break diplomatic ties with Damascus , called on Sunday for all Arab states to follow their lead . 
Coalition of seven opposition factions , united against Assad regime Includes Kurds , tribal leaders , Islamists , democracy activists Formed last November after months of talks in Turkey Stated aim is to support the revolution and overthrow Assad But Russia 's Deputy Foreign Minister Gennady Gatilov defended Moscow 's position . 
`` The authors of the draft Syria resolution , unfortunately , did not want to undertake an extra effort and come to a consensus , '' he wrote in a Twitter message . 
China 's state news agency Xinhua ran a commentary piece saying the two countries believed more time and patience was needed to solve the crisis . 
The double veto `` aimed at further seeking peaceful settlement of the chronic Syrian crisis and preventing possible drastic and risky solutions '' , said the commentary by Yu Zhixia . 
Russia 's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov is due to visit Damascus on Tuesday , to encourage democratic reform , Russian officials say . 
Syria has been gripped by nationwide protests against President Bashar al-Assad 's government for almost a year . 
Opposition groups say more than 7,000 civilians have died in the struggle . 
The government characterises the unrest as a conflict with armed gangs and terrorists , and says several thousand security personnel have been killed . 
Are you in Syria ? 
Do you have friends or family there ? 
Send us your comments and experiences using the form below Send your pictures and videos to yourpics@bbc.co.uk or text them to 61124 -LRB- UK -RRB- or +447624800100 -LRB- International -RRB- . 
If you have a large file you can upload here . 
If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on . 
In some cases a selection of your comments will be published , displaying your name as you provide it and location , unless you state otherwise . 
Your contact details will never be published . 
When sending us pictures , video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others , take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws . 
Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


By Barbara Plett BBC UN correspondent The US accused Russia and China of shameful intransigence after the vote The UN resolution supporting an Arab League peace plan was the most determined effort so far by the Security Council to try and respond to the crisis in Syria . 
It now lies in tatters after the double veto by Russia and China . 
The scale of the defeat was registered in the gloom on the faces of Western and Arab envoys , and in the bitter exchanges in the council after the vote . 
Using words like `` disgusted '' and `` appalled '' , Western diplomats accused Russia and China of holding the council hostage , and of complicity in the policy of repression carried out by the regime of President Bashar al-Assad . 
The disappointment was all the deeper because this was the second double veto on Syria , and because this time agreement had seemed possible . 
The resolution had the support of the 13 other council members and of the group representing the region - the Arab League . 
In intense negotiations diplomats seem to have met many of the Russian objections : they took out reference to anything that might have suggested support for sanctions or an arms embargo , and added assurances that the resolution could not be used to authorise military intervention or regime change . 
They removed explicit reference to the elements of the Arab peace plan - particularly a timetable spelling out a process for Mr Assad to hand powers to a deputy who would oversee preparations for new elections . 
Although they insisted that support for the plan itself was a red line . 
Despite all of this the Russians vetoed . 
In broad terms , their decision was colored by the strategic and commercial interests they have invested in a decades-long alliance with the Assad regime , and by their policy of non-intervention in the affairs of a sovereign state . 
But there were two other reasons why they refused to accept this specific resolution . 
First of all , they were never happy with the way it came about . 
They supported the Arab League observer mission despatched to Syria in December , but they did n't think its conclusions warranted the subsequent league decision to promote a political process that in essence saw Mr Assad step aside . 
Rather , the Russians suspected that the observer mission had been hijacked by Qatar and Saudi Arabia -LRB- countries hostile to Syria -RRB- backed by Western powers , and that their proposal was a thinly disguised attempt at regime change . 
Because the Russians thought that was the real intention , it was always going to be very difficult to get their full support for the Arab plan , especially as the Syrian government had rejected it . 
Even in the last amendments they put forward , they were trying to weaken its elements , `` taking account '' of the timetable for political transition , rather than adhering to it . 
Secondly , the Russians highlight the element of armed conflict in the violence , rather than simply focusing on government repression of civilians . 
They say the Security Council should also be making demands of the armed opposition , not just the regime , or it will be taking sides in a civil war . 
Again , their last minute amendments reflected this view , declaring , for example , that any military withdrawal from cities and towns be done in conjunction with an end to rebel attacks . 
This was just too much of a concession for the West to accept , especially on a day when government forces had been relentlessly shelling the city of Homs . 
The British ambassador to the UN , Mark Lyall Grant , has promised to bring the Arab League plan back to the council if the bloodshed continues , although there is little to suggest the Russians would not again reject it for all the reasons they have cited . 
More likely is that diplomatic efforts will run along different and possibly opposing tracks . 
Western nations have said they will continue strong support for the Arab peace plan , working with the Arab League to pressure and isolate the Assad regime . 
Russia has also announced its own separate initiative . 
On Tuesday Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and the head of Russia 's foreign intelligence service will go to Damascus . 
People will be waiting to see whether the Russians can succeed where the world has failed - in getting Mr Assad to sign on to a political transition plan that would end the conflict . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


By Jonathan Marcus BBC Diplomatic Correspondent International efforts to bring pressure to bear on President Bashar al-Assad 's regime in Syria have collapsed in acrimony . 
Disagreements over the resolution have led to acrimony between the two sides The decision by Russia and China to veto an Arab League-inspired resolution at the United Nations Security Council has created serious strains especially between Moscow and the West . 
Worse , it has probably sent the wrong signal to President Assad , who many analysts believe is determined to step up the violence . 
The annual Munich Security Conference in Germany has provided a ring-side seat as this diplomatic drama played out . 
The touring company of world leaders , diplomats and experts who do the rounds of these policy gatherings have made Munich the premier event of its kind . 
It always has a good cast-list and this year was no exception . 
Both US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and her Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov were in town , fresh from their starring roles in the negotiations at the UN in New York . 
Almost from the outset of this crisis , all eyes have been on Moscow . 
Russia is Syria 's only prominent ally . 
Moscow has long had close military , economic and diplomatic ties with the Syrians . 
Russia is expanding its use of the Syrian naval base at Tartus and has maintained arms supplies to Damascus throughout this crisis . 
The Russians and Chinese had put themselves on the wrong side of history , and they will regret it '' End Quote US Senator John McCain So all eyes were on Sergei Lavrov when he began his brief intervention . 
Was Russia now ready to join in concerted international action to condemn the Syrian regime ? 
The answer quickly became clear - No , it was not . 
For all the hopes in the West of a last-minute compromise , with Mr Lavrov and Mrs Clinton hurrying off for bilateral talks in the margins of the conference , there was probably no deal to be done . 
At one level it is quite simple . 
Russia is , as I have said , Syria 's most prominent ally and that is that . 
This , together with Russia 's traditional antipathy towards what it sees as the UN Security Council 's interference in a sovereign nation 's affairs - here China takes much the same view - was enough to prompt the Russian veto . 
But it is a little more complicated than that . 
The killing of more than 50 people in Homs came on the day of the vote I listened closely to Mr Lavrov 's comments . 
`` Russia , '' he said , `` supported the call of the Syrian people for change . '' 
It had backed the Arab League observer mission and had persuaded the Syrian authorities to accept it . 
But , he went on , Russia was not going to accept any resolutions that might open the way to foreign intervention or that would pre-determine the political outcome in Syria . 
Mr Lavrov was clearly sceptical about what any UN resolution might achieve . 
`` What was the West 's game plan ? '' 
If the violence continued , he argued , would you simply go back to the UN for another resolution ? 
This was simply `` not a serious policy '' . 
If the draft resolution did not apply equivalent restrictions on all parties - for the Russians that means the `` armed groups '' who they believe are fomenting the violence as much as the Syrian government - it was going to be unacceptable to Moscow . 
Similarly , if it referred in any way to the Arab League peace plan which involves President Assad stepping aside according to a tight schedule , then this too was unacceptable to the Russians , as was anything that they believe might pre-determine the outcome in Syria . 
Contrast all this with the Western view and the context of Saturday 's talks - reports of hundreds killed by Syrian government artillery in Homs . 
The fact that the death toll was significantly scaled down by the evening does little to alter the horror of the events there . 
Western leaders believed the Syrian government 's escalation of the violence required a prompt and unanimous condemnation from the international community . 
Russia fully supports the rights of the Syrian people for a better life . 
We are not friends or allies of President Assad '' End Quote Sergei Lavrov Russian Foreign Minister But the broader context matters too . 
In general terms , the West is far more enthusiastic than the Russians about the upheavals in the Middle East . 
Moscow has welcomed the advent of the Arab Spring in cautious terms , concerned by instability and the potential overthrow of established diplomatic patterns . 
In the West there has been an altogether more jubilant tone . 
Syria is seen as the next outdated regime to fall and its departure would be a blow to Iran . 
After hoping that President Assad might deliver reform , he has turned his guns on his own people and the consensus in the West , along with the Arab League , is that he must go . 
So where does diplomacy go from here ? 
The sense of anger in Western diplomatic circles is palpable , and that is bound to have an impact on broader relations with Moscow . 
`` The Russians and Chinese have put themselves on the wrong side of history , and they will regret it , '' said veteran US Senator John McCain who is leading a Congressional delegation to the Munich conference . 
`` Did n't Mr Lavrov though have a point ? '' 
`` A UN resolution is not going to change President Assad 's approach ? '' 
`` No '' he said , such resolutions mattered . 
`` Secretary Clinton had gone the extra mile with Mr Lavrov here in Munich . 
She was willing to make changes to the resolution . 
It was n't set in concrete , '' he said . 
`` But Mr Lavrov wanted to gut the resolution , it 's as simple as that . '' 
Western diplomats insist that the quest for a UN resolution condemning Syria will continue . 
Mr Lavrov is heading to Damascus for some bilateral diplomacy of his own . 
What message will he carry with him to the Syrian capital ? 
Russia of course does not want to lose an ally , but it is undoubtedly in an uncomfortable position . 
It wants any new Syria that may emerge to maintain its alliance with Moscow . 
But there was perhaps just a hint of Moscow 's thinking in Mr Lavrov 's comments here in Munich . 
`` Russia fully supports the rights of the Syrian people for a better life . 
We are not friends or allies of President Assad , '' he said . 
He said it again a few moments later : `` We do n't have any special concern for President Assad . '' 
That is one straw in the wind , though . 
With the Assad regime struggling for its survival , Moscow may find that its efforts to manage regime change in Syria is just as fruitless as the diplomatic pressures coming from the West and the Arab League . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Protests against the government have continued despite unrelenting attacks by security forces The Russian and Chinese veto of the UN draft resolution on Syria is condemned in the Arab , Turkish , Israeli and even Russian press , finding support only in the official Syrian and Chinese media and pro-government newspapers in Syria 's ally , Iran . 
Some Arab newspapers criticise UN and Arab League efforts , and support a French proposal to aid the Syrian opposition through an informal international grouping . 
Syrian and Iranian papers denounce the resolution as a Western ploy and the Arab League as a US `` pawn '' . 
Chinese papers back Beijing 's actions as defense of non-interference in internal affairs . 
Many Arab papers see the superpower confrontation over Syria as the start of a new Cold War by proxy , although one commentator says the Russian and Chinese positions could change . 
Tariq al-Hamid in London 's Saudi-owned Al-Sharq al-Awsat `` With the killing of thousands of Syrians and the systematic terror carried out by Assad 's forces and his lawyers Russia and China , who resorted to the Security Council to use their veto , the Arabs today have no choice but to shun the inaction of Arab League Secretary-General Nabil el-Arabi ... The Arabs must support the French president 's proposal to form a group of friends of the Syrian people , as it has become clear that fear is inherited in Syria '' . 
Jamil al-Dhayidi in London 's Saudi-owned Al-Hayat `` The Russian and Chinese stance is clothed in shame and disgrace . 
Moscow and Beijing insist on dancing on corpses and disregarding the massacres by Assad 's regime . 
Vladimir Putin and his like will go to the rubbish heap of history haunted by the curses of angry Arabs ... The Russian and Chinese people should speak out against the veto that gives a license to kill ... But we doubt that this will happen . '' 
Abd-al-Bari Atwan in London 's Arab nationalist Al-Quds Al-Arabi `` The double Russian-Chinese veto at the UN Security Council ... is an important turning point in international relations and the start of a new page in a Cold War of a different nature . '' 
`` Both the Syrian leadership and the Syrian people are aware that the parties attacking Syria have been left confused after the second double veto by Russia and China at the Security Council . 
They are also aware that they will not find a way to continue their dirty tricks other than by escalating their media campaign through high-sounding rhetoric and false stories of fighting and defections in the Syrian army , which exist only in their sick minds . '' 
Qasem Ghafuri in Iran 's Jaam-e Jam `` This veto shows that that the West 's attitude towards Syria is not to assist its people but to overthrow its government , which is completely contrary to the people 's wish . 
The Arab League 's cooperation with America in this field has further revealed the face of this US pawn ... The veto also shows that Obama 's policy of improving ties with Russia and China has failed . '' 
`` Re-energising the Arab Initiative and the committee of Arab observers is the only way to stop the crisis from exploding and to resolve the crisis within the Arab arena ... We have to affirm an important truth , which is the failure of the military and security solutions in Syria just as they failed in Yemen , Libya , Tunisia and Egypt . 
There is no real solution except a political solution and we hope that the regime takes this seriously . '' 
Mazin Hamad in Qatar 's Al-Watan `` The Syrian crisis has entered a new phase of security and political escalation after Russia and China used their veto at the UN Security Council ... With the expectation of more bloodshed and resistance , civil war has unfortunately taken a step closer to reality . 
The veto undermines the role of the UN and the international community at this stage , and it is becoming impossible to stop the killing machine in the Syrian city . '' 
Nayla Nayla Tuwayn in Lebanon 's Arab nationalist Al-Nahar `` The situation in Syria will not be corrected by killing people and imprisoning all the dissidents ... We must also understand that the interests of states change , and today 's veto may not last long . '' 
Andrei Yashlavsky in Moskovskiy Komsomolets Moscow daily `` Bashar al-Assad has turned into the proverbial ` suitcase without a handle ' - heavy to carry but a shame to give up . 
Hence all the wavering in Russia 's position ... After all , Syria is one of the few strategic partners Russia has left in the region , and a not insignificant buyer of our arms . 
In that respect Moscow 's logic is clear . 
Yet it is equally clear that Assad 's prospects of a long and happy presidency are virtually nil , and then it will be extremely difficult to build relations with the new authorities . 
It is not for nothing that the Americans have already openly stated that now the bloodshed in Syria will be on Russia 's and China 's hands . '' 
Qu Xing of Foreign Ministry think-tank in Renmin Ribao `` The Syrian government should attach importance to the people 's aspirations for social change , and the current situation is unsustainable . 
The Syrian opposition should understand that , if foreign countries intervene militarily , several generations in Syria will pay the price for it . 
The Arab League and the Gulf Cooperation Council should understand that avoiding foreign armed intervention will be conducive to the overall interests of the Arab world . 
The US and Europe should also understand that if an out-of-control situation in Syria causes the situation in the entire Middle East to go out of control , hits energy supplies and breeds extremist forces , this will benefit no one . '' 
Ex-ambassador to Iran Hua Liming in Huanqiu Shibao `` The principle of reciprocal non-interference in internal affairs is still the last line of defense for disadvantaged developing countries to safeguard their right to exist . 
The veto by China and Russia safeguarded the interests of vulnerable groups in the world and also prevented the UN from falling into injustice once again . '' 
Nilgun Tekfidan Gumus in Turkey 's Hurriyet `` While the West is having difficulty in determining a policy to end the bloodshed in Syria , the Assad regime is very pleased with the support it has received from Russia and China ... I wish Assad would not let his country be the point of confrontation between Sunni and Shiite Islam and accept mediation efforts so that 7,000 people would not die . 
But it is certainly too late . '' 
`` The Russian and Chinese veto of the UN Security Council resolution against Syria is in fact a licence for Syria 's president to continue slaughtering his citizens with impunity . 
The veto makes it eminently clear how weak the international community is when it comes to people who are trying to free themselves from the burden of a dictator and who dream of democracy and a fair life ... Their move makes the two superpowers full partners in the acts of murder . '' 
BBC Monitoring selects and translates news from radio , television , press , news agencies and the internet from 150 countries in more than 70 languages . 
It is based in Caversham , UK , and has several bureaux abroad . 


Syria crisis : Russia ` wants Arab League role ' BBC 's Paul Wood , in Homs , says Russian-made tanks are firing on residents Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has called for a solution to the crisis in Syria based on initiatives put forward by the Arab League . 
Visiting Syria , Mr Lavrov said Damascus was ready for a larger Arab mission to monitor peace efforts , and would set a date for a constitutional referendum . 
His visit comes after Russia and China vetoed a UN resolution . 
Gulf states say they are expelling Syria 's ambassadors . 
Government forces are continuing a fierce assault on rebels in Homs . 
The BBC 's Paul Wood - one of the only foreign reporters in Homs - says the Syrian army resumed mortar attacks and heavy machine-gun fire after daybreak . 
He says Russian-made tanks have been seen close to the city center , but these is no sign so far of the ground assault feared by many residents . 
Hundreds are reported to have died since shelling of the city began on Friday . 
At least 95 people were killed on Monday alone , activists say . 
Crowds of people were out in Damascus as Sergei Lavrov 's convoy arrived The Syrian opposition has voiced strong criticism of the stalemate at the UN , saying the Russian and Chinese vetoes on Saturday encouraged the Syrian government to step up the assault on Homs . 
But after meeting Syrian leaders , Mr Lavrov said President Bashar al-Assad was `` fully committed '' to ending bloodshed and ready for dialogue with all political forces . 
Mr Assad would soon announce a date for a referendum on a new constitution , he added . 
`` We -LRB- Russia -RRB- confirmed our readiness to act for a rapid solution to the crisis based on the plan put forward by the Arab League , '' Mr Lavrov said , though Syrian officials later clarified that he was was not referring to the current Arab League plan which calls for Mr Assad to step down in favor of his vice-president . 
`` Syria is informing the Arab League it is interested in the League 's mission continuing its work and being increased in terms of quantity , '' he added . 
The league deployed an observer mission to Syria in December but suspended it in late January amid worsening violence . 
In a separate development , Gulf Arab states said they were expelling Syria 's ambassadors in the region and recall their own ambassadors in Syria over what they described as the `` mass slaughter '' of civilians . 
The decision comes a day after the US closed its embassy in Damascus and pulled out all remaining staff . 
The UK , France , Spain and Italy have also recalled their ambassadors . 
Jonathan Marcus BBC diplomatic correspondent After the collapse of efforts to pass a UN Security Council resolution on Syria , all the talk now is of `` new initiatives '' - Turkey , France , the UK , the Arab League are all promising action . 
So what 's on offer ? 
First there will be efforts through other parts of the UN system - the General Assembly and the Human Rights Council - to try to increase the pressure on Damascus . 
The Arab League may appoint a special envoy for Syria . 
Momentum is building for a much broader group of countries - perhaps styled as `` the Friends of Syria '' - to co-ordinate activities and keep the Syria issue in the spotlight . 
For now though this is all entirely in the realm of diplomacy . 
Some may already be filtering arms to Syrian rebel fighters but the international consensus is that external military intervention has no role in this crisis . 
Thousands of President Assad 's supporters lined the streets of Damascus and waved flags as Mr Lavrov 's motorcade drove through the city ahead of his meeting with Mr Assad , in what correspondents described as a hero 's welcome . 
Mr Lavrov has said Western reaction condemning Russia 's veto of the UN Security Council resolution on Saturday bordered on `` hysteria '' . 
Moscow has said the draft - which backed an Arab League peace plan calling for President Assad to hand over power - would have forced regime change on Syria . 
US State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland urged Mr Lavrov to `` use this opportunity to make absolutely clear to the Assad regime how isolated it is and to encourage Assad and his people to make use of the Arab League plan and provide for a transition '' . 
Russia is the main supplier of arms to Damascus . 
The Syrian port of Tartus is home to Russia 's only Mediterranean naval base . 
Meanwhile Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan told MPs in Ankara : `` We will start a new initiative with those countries who stand by the Syrian people , not the regime . '' 
The Syrian government , which has been fighting an uprising against President Assad 's rule since March , says it is fighting foreign-backed armed gangs . 
Thousands of former army soldiers have defected to the rebel side , forming the Free Syrian Army . 
Syria 's interior ministry said operations against `` terrorist groups '' would continue until `` security and order are restored '' in Homs . 
Human rights groups and activists say more than 7,000 people have been killed by Syrian security forces since the uprising began last March . 
The UN stopped estimating the death toll in Syria after it passed 5,400 in January , saying it was too difficult to confirm . 
President Assad 's government says at least 2,000 members of the security forces have been killed . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria crisis : Gulf Arab states expel Syrian ambassadors BBC 's Paul Wood , in Homs , says Russian-made tanks are firing on residents Gulf Arab states say they are expelling Syrian ambassadors in their countries and recalling their envoys from Syria . 
The Gulf Cooperation Council said Syria had rejected Arab attempts to solve the crisis and end 11 months of bloodshed . 
The US closed its embassy in Syria on Monday , and several European countries have recalled their ambassadors . 
The moves came as Syrian government forces continued their fierce assault on the restive city of Homs , and Russian officials visited Damascus . 
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov called for a solution to the crisis based on Arab League initiatives , days after Russia and China vetoed a UN resolution on Syria . 
After meeting Mr Lavrov , Syrian media quoted President Bashar al-Assad as saying he was willing to co-operate with `` any efforts towards stability '' . 
Separately Russia 's ambassador to the UN , Vitaly Churkin , denied reports that he had threatened Qatar 's prime minister during talks at the UN last week . 
Someone was trying to drive a wedge between Russia and the Arab world , he said . 
Jim Muir BBC News , Beirut , Lebanon On the surface , Sergei Lavrov 's talks with President Assad in Damascus do n't seem to have produced any kind of breakthrough . 
If things were agreed behind the scenes without being announced , that could become apparent in the coming days , especially in places like Homs , where the violence continues unabated . 
But on the face of it , there was nothing new in the statements made after the talks , though Mr Lavrov said the Syrian leader seemed to have taken on board the need for swift action . 
He remains committed to ending violence from any source - but the Syrians have used that formula to cover their crackdown on armed opposition fighters . 
The powers which backed the torpedoed UN resolution are not waiting for the Russians to pull a rabbit from the hat . 
The BBC 's Paul Wood - one of the very few foreign reporters in Homs - says the Syrian army resumed mortar attacks and heavy machine-gun fire after daybreak . 
He says Russian-made tanks have been seen close to the city center , but there is no sign so far of the ground assault feared by many residents . 
Hundreds are reported to have died since the shelling of the city began on Friday . 
At least 95 people were killed on Monday alone , activists say . 
At least 15 were killed on Tuesday , they said . 
The Interior Ministry said it would continue its operations in the city against `` terrorist groups '' until `` order '' was restored , in a statement quoted by state news agency Sana . 
There were reports of more fighting in Hama , another flashpoint city , and the town of Zabadani near Damascus . 
A Gulf Cooperation Council -LRB- GCC -RRB- statement said : `` Members have decided to withdraw their ambassadors from Syria and ask at the same time for all the ambassadors of the Syrian regime to leave immediately . '' 
There was `` no point in them staying after the Syrian regime rejected all attempts and aborted all honest Arab efforts to solve this crisis and end the bloodshed '' , it added . 
Member states `` follow with sorrow and anger , the increase in killing and violence in Syria , which has not spared children , old people or women with heinous acts that at best can be described as mass slaughter '' . 
The GCC said it would urge all other Arab states to adopt `` decisive measures '' when the Arab League meets next week . 
The decision comes a day after the US closed its embassy in Damascus and pulled out all remaining staff . 
The UK , France , Belgium , the Netherlands , Spain and Italy have also recalled their ambassadors . 
Mr Lavrov called for a solution to the crisis based on initiatives put forward by the Arab League on 2 November 2011 to end the violence , though he has given no indication that Russia supports the league 's more recent call for Mr Assad to step down . 
He said Damascus was ready for a larger Arab mission to monitor peace efforts , and would set a date for a constitutional referendum . 
The Arab League deployed an observer mission to Syria in December but suspended it in late January amid worsening violence . 
Later , Syrian state news agency Sana said Mr Assad `` reiterated Syria 's willingness to work with all efforts towards stability in Syria '' . 
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov : `` The President of Syria has assured that he is fully committed to the goal of putting an end to the violence '' But US State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said Washington would withhold judgement on Mr Lavrov 's visit . 
`` You can understand that the international community as a whole would be pretty sceptical of , instead of focusing on ending the violence , what we seem to have is a re-upping of this same offer that Assad has been making for months and months and months , '' she said . 
The Syrian opposition , meanwhile , has voiced strong criticism of the stalemate at the UN , saying the Russian and Chinese vetoes on Saturday encouraged the Syria government to step up the assault on Homs . 
Mr Lavrov has said Western reaction condemning Russia 's veto on Saturday bordered on `` hysteria '' . 
Moscow has said the draft - which backed an Arab League peace plan calling for President Assad to hand over power - would have forced regime change on Syria . 
The Syrian government , which has been fighting an uprising against President Assad 's rule since March , says it is fighting foreign-backed armed gangs . 
Thousands of former army soldiers have defected to the rebel side , forming the Free Syrian Army . 
Syria 's interior ministry said operations against `` terrorist groups '' would continue until `` security and order are restored '' in Homs . 
Human rights groups and activists say more than 7,000 people have been killed by Syrian security forces since the uprising began last March . 
The UN stopped estimating the death toll in Syria after it passed 5,400 in January , saying it was too difficult to confirm . 
President Assad 's government says at least 2,000 members of the security forces have been killed . 
Are you in Syria ? 
Do you have friends or family there ? 
Send us your comments and experiences using the form below . 
At no time should you endanger yourself or others or take any unnecessary risks . 
Send your pictures and videos to yourpics@bbc.co.uk or text them to 61124 -LRB- UK -RRB- or +447624800100 -LRB- International -RRB- . 
If you have a large file you can upload here . 
If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on . 
In some cases a selection of your comments will be published , displaying your name as you provide it and location , unless you state otherwise . 
Your contact details will never be published . 
When sending us pictures , video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others , take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws . 
Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Press sceptical on Lavrov 's Syria visit Sergei Lavrov -LRB- R -RRB- met President Bashar al-Assad during the visit to the Syrian capital Many papers in the Middle East , Turkey and Russia are sceptical about the usefulness of Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and Foreign Intelligence Service head Mikhail Fradkov 's trip to Damascus on Tuesday for talks with President Bashar al-Assad . 
Syrian state television showed crowds waving Syrian and Russian flags as their convoy moved through the capital . 
Russian news agencies say President Assad told Mr Lavrov that he was ready for dialogue with all political forces , and was interested in an expanded Arab League mission to Syria . 
Russia - along with China - came under fierce international criticism after their veto of a UN resolution calling on the Syrian government to stop killing its own people . 
Russia is the largest supplier of arms to Syria and has a naval base there - the only one outside the former Soviet Union . 
Rafiq Khuri in Lebanon 's Al-Anwar `` Everything that Lavrov has announced gives the impression that all that he has in his basket has been overtaken by events ... The time has passed for a Syrian solution - that has sunk into blood , as well as for the Arab-international solution . '' 
Abdul Rahman al-Rashid in the Baghdad edition of London-based Al-Sharq al-Awsat '' -LRB- Assad 's -RRB- Russian partners are asking him to adopt a political solution of some sort ... But he is going to deal with the Russians as he has done before with the Turks and the French , among others . 
He will listen to them and make promises but will keep none . '' 
Amit Cohen in Israel 's Maariv `` Russia claims that it is possible to solve the crisis without any Security Council intervention , but now it has to prove that this is right . 
Therefore Lavrov bound the Syrian president with chains when he officially declared that Assad had committed himself to ending the violence . '' 
Ziyad Ghusn in Syria 's government-owned Tishrin The things that distinguish Russia 's position on Syria the most are realism and objectivity . 
It is a position that is based on deep analysis , which is linked to everything that is happening on the ground . 
Hence its vision for the solution to the Syrian crisis is derived from a realistic comprehensive political context that does not rely on prior positions or ready-made solutions . '' 
Ali Qasim in Syria 's government-owned Al-Thawrah `` It is perfectly obvious that Syria and Russia have become closer to each other more than ever ... President Bashar al-Assad 's meeting with the Russian minister confirmed that . '' 
Sami Kohen in Turkey 's Milliyet `` Russian diplomacy may still be trying to achieve a compromise between Assad and his opponents and to create formulas for this . 
It may even persuade Assad to move in this direction . 
But what is currently realistic is a solution not with Assad but without him . '' 
Ibrahim Karagul in Turkey 's Yeni Safak `` Even Lavrov himself knew that this was the last chance . 
To date , none of the repeated guarantees given by Damascus have been followed by results . 
It is not possible for a country to do all this while there is a civil war atmosphere . '' 
Deniz Ulke Aribogan in Turkey 's Aksam `` On the one hand ambassadors are being called back , and on the other tens of thousands of flag-waving Syrians support Lavrov 's visit to Syria . 
The world seems to be split in two again , and Turkey is looking for a position for itself in this new structure . '' 
`` Russia is making desperate attempts to stop a civil war that is starting in Syria and thus to save a regime friendly towards it ... When the motorcade reached -LRB- Damascus -RRB- , it was received by a huge crowd , jubilantly waving Russian flags ... Exactly the same crowds of Muammar Gaddafi 's supporters were shown on Libyan state TV shortly before the fall of his regime . '' 
Yuriy Paniyev in Nezavisimaya Gazeta `` The trip of Russian top officials to Syria , the first one in more than 10 months , shows that Moscow not only objects to the UN Security Council resolution but is trying to find a political solution to the problem ... Experts say that Bashar al-Assad 's immediate resignation was not on the agenda of the meeting . '' 
Andrey Yashlavskiy in Moskovskiy Komsomolets `` Russia 's position in the Syrian issue can not be called strong . 
After our and Chinese diplomats blocked the adoption of a UN Security Council resolution on Syria , Bashar al-Assad 's opponents have listed Russia and China among their enemies . 
The situation has not made Moscow more popular with the West , either . '' 
BBC Monitoring selects and translates news from radio , television , press , news agencies and the internet from 150 countries in more than 70 languages . 
It is based in Caversham , UK , and has several bureaux abroad . 


09 February 12 07:00 GMT UN chief Ban Ki-moon says the Arab League plans to revive its mission to Syria , and has sought help from the UN . 
Mr Ban said the `` disastrous '' failure to agree a UN resolution on Syria had encouraged Damascus `` to step up its war on its own people '' . 
The international community is struggling to find a way forward in the crisis after Russia and China blocked the resolution last week . 
Syrian forces are continuing to attack opposition strongholds in the country . 
Activists say shelling resumed early on Thursday in the central city of Homs - where the army launched an assault last week . 
With several districts controlled by rebel forces - including many army defectors - Syria 's third-largest city has become a major focus of unrest against President Bashar al-Assad . 
More than 50 people were killed there on Wednesday alone , according to the UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights . 
Speaking at the UN , Mr Ban said : `` I fear that the appalling brutality we are witnessing in Homs , with heavy weapons firing into civilian neighborhoods , is a grim harbinger of worse to come . '' 
He said Arab League chief Nabil el-Arabi had told him he intended to revive a monitoring mission in Syria , which collapsed last month amid escalating violence . 
Mr Ban said Mr Arabi had asked for UN help with the project and proposed a joint UN-Arab League observer mission , including a joint special envoy . 
`` In the coming days we will further consult with the council before fleshing out details , '' Mr Ban said . 
`` We stand ready to assist in any way that will contribute toward improvement on the ground . '' 
Earlier , the US rejected Russian calls for talks between the Syrian government and the opposition . 
White House spokesman Jay Carney said President Bashar al-Assad had missed the `` opportunity '' for dialogue . 
`` From the -LRB- earliest -RRB- days of this situation in Syria , there was an opportunity for the Assad regime to engage in dialogue with the opposition , '' White House spokesman Jay Carney said . 
`` Rather than take that opportunity , Assad brutally cracked down on his own people . 
We do n't think that that opportunity is available any more . 
`` It is clear that Assad has chosen a path and that choice has resulted in the deaths of many Syrians , including innocent children . '' 
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov , who visited Damascus on Tuesday , had said that President Assad was ready to talk with `` all political forces '' to end the violence . 
But his comments were dismissed by opposition leaders and violence across Syria has continued unabated . 
Mr Carney said the US planned to meet soon with its international partners to discuss ways to stop the violence in Syria and provide humanitarian aid . 
In a day of intense diplomatic activity , Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said on Wednesday that if the UN Security Council could n't protect Syrian civilians , then like-minded countries should find ways to do so . 
He is due in Washington for talks with Secretary of State Hillary Clinton early next week . 
Russian President Dmitry Medvedev , in a phone conversation with French President Nicolas Sarkozy on Wednesday , urged the West `` to avoid hasty unilateral steps '' in Syria , Russian news agency Interfax reported . 
On Wednesday witnesses in Homs ' Baba Amr district reported intense shelling by tanks , mortars , artillery and heavy machine guns . 
`` The situation is dire . 
We are short of food , water and medical aid . 
Doctors have collapsed after treating the wounded without rest for five days , '' said activist Omar Shaker in Homs . 
`` We want Lavrov to come and spend a night in Homs to see what we have been passing through . '' 
The Observatory also reported at least another eight civilians killed around the country on Wednesday . 
Syria restricts access to foreign media and casualty figures can not be independently verified . 
The UN resolution backed an Arab League peace plan that would have seen President Assad hand power to a deputy to oversee a transition . 
Russia , a strong ally of Syria , said that amounted to regime change . 
The Syrian government blames the violence on foreign-backed groups and insists the Homs offensive will continue until `` order '' is restored in the city . 


Analysis : Syria 's complex and bloody crisis By Jim Muir BBC News , Beirut The crackdown is aimed at bringing key centres back under government control There are few certainties or even probabilities in the complex and bloody crisis in which Syria is now mired . 
It is uncharted terrain for all - the regime itself , its population , its fellow Arab states , non-Arab neighbors Turkey and Israel , and the concerned outside world . 
Huge issues are at stake in the deepening struggle . 
The collapse of the regime and a descent into chaos , in a country where sectarian and ethnic fault lines converge , would have huge repercussions in the wider region . 
It would redraw its geopolitical map . 
Iran would stand to lose a vital channel for support to its ally in Lebanon , Hezbollah . 
Russia would likely lose its most important Arab ally . 
And the possible emergence of a Sunni-led Syria , perhaps dominated by Islamists as seems to be happening in Egypt and elsewhere , would not necessarily be good news for the West and Israel either . 
One thing that seems relatively safe to predict is that the regime 's current drive to crush armed rebels will continue until it has secured control of areas which had slipped out of its grasp in recent months . 
The Free Syrian Army , patrolling near Homs , is under growing pressure It formally committed itself to that goal - at least for Homs and its province - in an interior ministry statement on Monday night . 
The subsequent visit to Damascus by the Russian Foreign Minister , Sergei Lavrov , has clearly done nothing to curb the onslaught . 
In fact , the campaign goes far beyond Homs and its environs . 
It was launched a few days after the Arab League 's foreign ministers met in Cairo on 22 January and adopted a new peace plan for Syria , which called on President Bashar al-Assad to hand power to his vice-president and make way for the rapid formation of a national unity government including the opposition . 
That implicitly scrapped an earlier Arab peace plan , adopted on 2 November , which Syria accepted and which it and Russia still support . 
The November scheme called for an end to violence from whatever source , the withdrawal of armed forces , the deployment of Arab observers , the release of detainees , and rapid movement towards national dialogue . 
The sudden adoption of a radically different plan , and the move to take the issue to the UN Security Council , apparently convinced Mr Assad that Syria 's powerful Arab adversaries - notably the Saudi-led Gulf states and especially Qatar - backed by Western powers , would stop at nothing to overturn his regime . 
Damascus had already accused those Arab powers of arming and financing rebel groups , with guns and money pouring into the country across porous borders from Turkey , Lebanon , Jordan and Iraq . 
So the crackdown launched by Syrian security forces after the unveiling of the new Arab League plan is aimed at bringing key population centres back under government control , eliminating the armed opposition , and securing borders to stop the flow of weapons and money . 
It has seen troops drive armed rebels out of the suburbs of Damascus itself , and put severe pressure on them in other places where they have taken root - Homs , Hama , Idlib , Deraa and elsewhere . 
Homs and Hama are strategically important because they control the highway between Damascus and Aleppo , the two big cities which have yet to be fully caught up in the revolt . 
Homs is also close to the Lebanese border . 
Idlib and its province in the north-west are important because they are adjacent to Turkey , where the rebel Free Syrian Army is based . 
In recent days security forces have been on the move in towns , villages and country areas near all four borders , attacking any centres of armed resistance they can find . 
Lebanese analysts well versed in Syrian affairs believe that , far from disapproving of the crackdown on armed rebels , the Russians may even have encouraged it . 
But neither the Russians nor the regime itself can seriously think that crushing or curbing armed groups represents a solution to the entire crisis . 
Moscow is said to believe that `` armed extremist groups '' need to be eliminated because they would sabotage any compromise agreement reached through dialogue between the regime and its opponents . 
By that reading , the current escalation would be more about affecting the balance of a future post-crisis Syria than pursuing the illusion that the entire uprising could be defeated by force , and that things would go back to how they were , as though nothing had happened . 
As the continued defiance at Homs , Hama , Deraa and elsewhere have shown , it is not that easy . 
Although the escalation looks set to continue , it is not a comfortable time for Russia . 
After the Russian and Chinese veto of an otherwise unanimous Security Council resolution that would have adopted the second Arab League peace plan , with its call for Mr Assad to step aside , the powers that supported the torpedoed resolution are urgently seeking another way forward . 
Although there are no obvious answers , that process is bound to intensify and speed up the longer the bloodbath continues and the uglier it gets . 
Coalition of seven opposition factions , united against Assad regime Includes Kurds , tribal leaders , Islamists , democracy activists Formed last November after months of talks in Turkey Stated aim is to support the revolution and overthrow Assad Although external military intervention , as was seen in Libya , is being constantly ruled out , there is mounting pressure for some kind of action to halt the carnage , and ideas such as the creation of protected corridors for humanitarian aid , or safe-havens of some sort , are being increasingly discussed . 
The creation of some kind of formal or informal coalition of powers to support the Syrian opposition has been proposed in different forms by a variety of quarters , including the US , UK , and Turkey . 
That is far from being a straightforward proposition . 
Both politically and militarily , the opposition is divided . 
The main umbrella group in exile , the Syrian National Council -LRB- SNC -RRB- , has failed to unify with other opposition factions and agree on a shared platform . 
While it has generally supported the Free Syrian Army , it came under a blistering attack from the FSA commander , Col Riyad al-Asaad , just as the violence at Homs was reaching a crescendo . 
The FSA itself faced a challenge from a new military body , the Supreme Military Council , set up this week under a more senior defecting officer , Gen Mohammed al-Sheikh , who has also installed himself in southern Turkey . 
But these are wrinkles that could be smoothed out quickly under the pressure of time , events and a strong will from outside powers . 
And even if not , if the drive for an international consensus over Syria is abandoned , there is a strong danger from Russia 's viewpoint that the existing level of clandestine outside support to opposition rebels will be greatly stepped up , plunging the country into chaos and fragmentation , and clinching Moscow 's loss of its most important Arab ally . 
Moscow remains a key player for the regime , its opposition and at the UN The Russian calculation may be that it is better to use its undoubted influence with Damascus - with which it has a strategic relationship going back decades into Cold War and Soviet times - to play a leading role in brokering a Syrian settlement within an international consensus . 
That is presumably why President Dmitry Medvedev , in conversations with Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan this week , continued to propose the Security Council as the proper forum for elaborating an agreed strategy , despite the Russian-Chinese veto . 
Even the Syrian National Council , despite fury at the veto , has not ruled out a Russian role . 
`` Russia remains a potential mediator , '' the SNC said in its latest statement . '' 
-LRB- But it must -RRB- first use its influence on the regime in order to stop the killings immediately . '' 
`` A negotiated transition can only come afterwards , and will need to encompass the stepping aside of the head of the regime , a demand for which thousands of Syrians have died . '' 
These two key demands are likely to be the focus of intense scrutiny as all sides consider their options under the pressure of events on the ground . 
They imply that the regime has been defeated and must step aside - something that it is not ready to concede , apparently supported by Moscow . 
The situation is far more complex than during the uprisings in Tunisia , Egypt and Libya . 
In contrast to their ousted leaders , it does appear that the Assad regime still enjoys the support of significant sectors of the country 's patchwork society , increasingly polarised as the crisis deepens . 
Assad is still supported by large numbers of Syrians who fear chaos and Islamist rule By and large , his own Alawite minority apparently continues to stand with him , some no doubt fearful of the consequences of change . 
The same seems generally to be true of other minorities , especially the Christians , with more questionable allegiance from the Kurds and Druze . 
Secular-minded and business circles within the middle classes of the majority Sunni community , especially in the two biggest cities , have also shown little enthusiasm for the revolt , which some fear might bring Islamists to the fore , especially now that armed action is increasingly in the picture . 
The regime has also apparently been able to continue using the army and security forces in a repressive role without them going to pieces . 
There have been individual or group defections on the ground , but not by whole units . 
What nobody knows - probably not even the regime itself - is how long it can go on using forces in which the rank and file are necessarily largely Sunni , to quell a largely Sunni-based revolt . 
That may be one of the key constraints forcing the regime towards an eventual compromise . 
If there is to be a chance of a peaceful transition , a Russian role might be vital in persuading the regime to give ground - something Moscow would likely only do if it were convinced that a balanced outcome , rather than a Western-dictated formula removing Syria from its sphere of influence , would result . 
Other formulae being explored , such as the idea of an enhanced , joint UN-Arab League observer mission and the appointment of a special envoy , would imply an international consensus and agreement to stabilise the situation . 
A UN observer mission could not be mounted without a resolution from the Security Council , which Russia and China would have to approve . 
It could also not be deployed without Syrian approval , because observers are not mandated or equipped to fight their way in or impose anything , just to monitor , report , and hope that their presence has a calming and restraining effect . 
As the powers consider all these complexities , the killing on the ground goes on , with every drop of blood shed - on either side - making a solution and eventual reconciliation more difficult . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria draft resolution heads to UN General Assembly Syrian security forces are continuing to bombard parts of the city of Homs The United Nations General Assembly is becoming the focus of attempts to apply pressure on the Syrian government over its continued crackdown on dissent . 
Saudi Arabia is circulating a draft resolution calling for an end to violence by all sides and for President Bashar al-Assad to step aside . 
It is similar to one which Russia and China vetoed in the Security Council . 
The diplomatic move came as Syrian tanks and artillery continued to bombard parts of the city of Homs . 
Opposition activists said the Baba Amr district - a center of anti-government protests - had been hit by mortars on Saturday , killing at least 15 people , and that army snipers had been deployed on rooftops . 
After a week under shellfire and virtual siege , conditions in Homs are reported to be getting desperate , with basic supplies running low . 
Meanwhile , Syria 's state news agency reported that the director of the Hamish military hospital in Damascus , Brigadier Dr Isa al-Kholi , had been shot dead on Saturday by an `` armed terrorist group '' outside his home in the capital 's northern Rukn al-Din district . 
The BBC 's Jim Muir , in neighbouring Lebanon , says that although several officers of similar rank have been killed in combat in recent weeks , this is believed to be the first assassination of such a senior military figure in Damascus since the uprising against President Assad began in March . 
On Friday , activists said at least 52 people were killed across the country by security forces , including 16 in Homs and 15 in suburbs of Damascus . 
Human rights groups say more than 7,000 have died since March . 
The government says at least 2,000 members of the security forces have been killed combating `` armed gangs and terrorists '' . 
The UN General Assembly is scheduled to discuss Syria on Monday , when it will be addressed by the UN 's High Commissioner for Human Rights , Navi Pillay , but no vote on the resolution is expected by then . 
The Syrian government blames `` armed gangs and terrorists '' for the violence There is no power of veto at the General Assembly but its resolutions have no legal force , unlike those of the Security Council . 
The draft resolution circulated by Saudi Arabia `` fully supports '' the Arab League peace plan published last month , which called on Mr Assad to hand over power to his vice-president , and make way for the rapid formation of a national unity government including the opposition . 
While calling for an end to the violence by all sides , it lays blame primarily on the Syrian authorities , which are strongly condemned for `` continued widespread and systematic violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms '' . 
The draft urges accountability for those guilty of human rights violations , but does not specifically mention the International Criminal Court . 
There is also a request for Secretary General Ban Ki-moon to appoint a special envoy to promote a peaceful solution to the crisis - a proposal that Arab League Secretary General Nabil al-Arabi made this week . 
The US ambassador to Syria , Robert Ford , on Friday posted satellite imagery on Facebook which he said showed heavy weaponry deployed outside urban areas , including Homs , Zabadani , Rankun and Halban . 
DigitalGlobe released this image allegedly showing tanks near the Al-Baath university complex in Homs `` When we see disturbing photos offering proof that the regime is using mortars and artillery against residential neighborhoods , all of us become even more concerned about the tragic outcome for Syrian civilians , '' he wrote . 
`` It is odd to me that anyone would try to equate the actions of the Syrian army and armed opposition groups since the Syrian government consistently initiates the attacks on civilian areas , and it is using its heaviest weapons , '' he added , referring to Russia 's belief that the rebels are equally culpable . 
The satellite images are dated 6 February - the day the US closed its embassy in Damascus and Mr Ford left Syria , citing security concerns . 
Meanwhile , the government and rebel Free Syrian Army -LRB- FSA -RRB- , a group of army defectors , blamed each other for two bomb blasts in the city of Aleppo that killed 28 people and wounded more than 200 others . 
State television blamed the bombings on what it described as `` armed terrorist gangs '' , which it said had targeted a Military Intelligence complex and a riot police base but killed civilian bystanders , including children . 
The BBC 's Jim Muir : `` State TV has been carrying some extremely explicit and lurid footage '' It broadcast gruesome pictures of the aftermath of the two attacks , with large craters and scattered body parts . 
The FSA 's deputy leader told the BBC its fighters had been attacking the bases at the time , but were not responsible for the blasts . 
Opposition activists in Aleppo also blamed the government , saying it was trying to discredit the uprising . 
They said there had been suspicious activity by security forces around the two bases before the explosions , and noted that state TV cameras had reached the sites within minutes . 
US officials are reported to believe that two recent bombings in Damascus were carried out by militants from al-Qaeda in Iraq , and that the Sunni extremist group was also likely behind the attacks in Aleppo . 
The officials cited US intelligence reports , which appeared to support President Assad 's accusation that al-Qaeda was involved in attacks on Syrian government forces , according to the McClatchy Newspapers . 
The overall leader of al-Qaeda , Ayman Zawahiri , was believed to have authorised al-Qaeda in Iraq 's operations in Syria , the officials said . 
`` This was Zawahiri basically taking the shackles off , '' one added . 
Our correspondent says that such a development would not likely be welcomed by the bulk of the opposition movement , which has struggled for months to keep the uprising confined to peaceful massed protests . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Zawahiri urged militants in other countries to join the Syrian uprising Al-Qaeda 's leader has backed the anti-government uprising in Syria , urging the opposition not to rely on the Arab League or the West for help . 
In a video message , Ayman al-Zawahiri said the Syrian rebels had the right to use whatever means they saw fit to get rid of a `` cancerous regime '' . 
Egyptian-born Zawahiri , 62 , took over as head of al-Qaeda after the death of Osama Bin Laden in May 2011 . 
The Syrian government blamed al-Qaeda for two blasts in Damascus in December . 
That double suicide bombing killed 44 people . 
Zawahiri , who has a $ 25m -LRB- # 15m -RRB- US bounty on his head , addressed his video message to the `` Lions of Syria '' . 
He urged them to depend on their own efforts and sacrifices , and not on what he called the `` failed states of the Arab League , the West , or Turkey '' . 
`` If we want freedom , we must be liberated from this regime . 
If we want justice , we must retaliate against this regime , '' he said in the video . 
Arab League ministers are meeting in Cairo on Sunday to discuss the crisis in Syria , following the league 's decision to suspend its observer mission in the country last month . 
Zawahiri called on militants in Iraq , Jordan , Lebanon and Turkey , to rise up and support what he called `` their brothers in Syria '' . 
There have already been reports of Islamic militants crossing into Syria from Iraq . 
It is the clearest sign yet of involvement by al-Qaeda in the uprising in Syria , as it takes on increasingly an aspect of armed insurgency as well as popular protest , says the BBC 's Jim Muir , in neighbouring Lebanon . 
US officials are reported to believe the recent suicide car bombings in Damascus and Aleppo were the work of al-Qaeda . 
Opposition activists have blamed the Syrian government itself for the attacks . 
If violent Islamic extremists are becoming increasingly involved , it is going to muddy the waters of an already very complex situation , our correspondent says . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


12 February 12 15:38 GMT The head of the suspended Arab League observer mission to Syria has resigned as League foreign ministers meet to decide their next move in the crisis . 
League Secretary General Nabil al-Arabi told its members in Cairo they had to move quickly to end the `` vicious cycle of violence '' in Syria . 
The League is expected to approve Jordan ex-Foreign Minister Abdul-Illah al-Khatib as special envoy to Syria . 
Meanwhile , al-Qaeda 's leader has backed the Syrian uprising . 
In a video message , Ayman al-Zawahiri told the opposition not to rely on the West or Arab countries for support . 
Zawahiri - who took over the leadership of al-Qaeda following the death of Osama Bin Laden in May 2011 - described the Syrian government as a `` cancerous regime that suffocated the free people of Syria '' . 
He called on Muslims to offer whatever help they could . 
Controversial Sudanese General Mohammed al-Dabi , who led the month-long Arab League observer mission to Syria , submitted his resignation on Sunday . 
Human rights groups criticised him for his actions in Darfur , where Sudan is accused of genocide by the International Criminal Court . 
The Arab League suspended its mission in Syria at the end of January , after it failed to halt the violence . 
Mr Arabi said the failure of international diplomacy - referring to a UN resolution vetoed by Russia and China last weekend - had put a special responsibility on the league . 
`` It is imperative for us to move swiftly in all directions , to halt the vicious cycle of violence , '' he said in his opening words to the Arab League meeting . 
Mr Arabi confirmed to the BBC that the League was discussing a call to send peacekeepers to Syria . 
A draft resolution by the League is calling for an end to the observer mission and a halt to all forms of diplomatic co-operation with Syria . 
Damascus has already been suspended from the Arab League . 
The draft also calls for tighter economic sanctions . 
Meanwhile Reuters quoted Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal as saying the League should `` open all channels of communication with the Syrian opposition and give all forms of support to it '' . 
A delegation from the Syrian National Council -LRB- SNC -RRB- , a coalition of major opposition parties , is in Cairo , hoping to be recognized by more Arab countries . 
`` We want the Arab countries to decide how to best co-ordinate their initiatives to take us in the same direction , in the right direction , '' said Basma Kadmani of the SNC . 
`` We have been very reassured of everyone 's agendas . 
It is a priority to deal with the Syria issue . '' 
The members of the Gulf Co-operation Council -LRB- GCC -RRB- , which expelled Syria 's ambassadors from its member countries during the week , met ahead of the Arab League talks on Sunday . 
GCC and Arab League member Saudi Arabia is also circulating a draft resolution at the UN General Assembly , similar to the one vetoed in the Security Council by China and Russia . 
The draft resolution `` fully supports '' the Arab League peace plan published last month , which called on President Bashar al-Assad to hand over power to his vice-president , and make way for the rapid formation of a national unity government including the opposition . 
Saudi officials say they have not formally presented the resolution to the Assembly yet . 
The General Assembly is scheduled to discuss Syria on Monday , when it will be addressed by the UN 's High Commissioner for Human Rights , Navi Pillay , but no vote on the resolution is expected by then . 
There is no power of veto at the General Assembly but its resolutions have no legal force , unlike those of the Security Council . 
There were reports of a respite in the bombardment of Homs on Saturday night and Sunday morning , but shelling later resumed . 
At least four people were killed in the Baba Amr neighborhood of the city on Sunday , the Syrian Observatory on Human Rights said . 
At least 35 died on Saturday . 
Activists say more than 400 people have been killed since security forces launched an assault on opposition-held areas on the city last Saturday . 
Meanwhile , government forces entered the town of Zabadani , outside Damascus , after a rare ceasefire was apparently negotiated . 
Human rights groups say more than 7,000 have died throughout Syria since March . 
The government says at least 2,000 members of the security forces have been killed combating `` armed gangs and terrorists '' . 


Activists have reported fresh government attacks on districts of Homs Syria has `` categorically rejected '' an Arab League resolution calling for a joint Arab-UN peacekeeping mission to end the country 's 11-month conflict . 
Yusuf Ahmed , Syria 's envoy in Cairo , said the plan `` reflected the hysteria of these governments '' . 
The EU on Monday backed the Arab League 's `` bold '' plan but Russia said violence must end before any peacekeepers could be sent . 
Meanwhile the UN General Assembly has started a debate on the Syrian crisis . 
UN human rights chief Navi Pillay , who has been sharply critical of the actions of President Bashar al-Assad 's government , is later set to address the assembly in New York . 
The Arab League said it was ending all diplomatic co-operation with Syria , and promised to give `` political and material support '' to the opposition . 
The League 's moves come a week after Russia and China vetoed a UN Security Council resolution on Syria , which would have endorsed a previous Arab League peace initiative . 
The EU backed the League 's peacekeeping plan on Monday . 
Michael Mann , spokesman for EU foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton , said : `` We welcome these bold decisions and the strong and clear commitment and leadership that the Arab League is taking to resolve the crisis in Syria . 
Jim Muir BBC News , Beirut The Arab League decisions to halt all economic and diplomatic co-operation with the Syrian government may intensify the pressure and isolation for Damascus . 
But the call on the UN Security Council to pass a resolution to set up a joint UN-Arab League peacekeeping operation is unlikely to bring swift results . 
Any such move needs a ceasefire which does not exist , and which Syria would not accept because it would put rebels and government on the same footing . 
It would also require a consensus at the Security Council which is not there . 
But the league 's decisions give its members political cover for backing and financing the Syrian opposition . 
Syria already accuses some Arab states of paying and arming the rebels . 
The appearance on the scene of al-Qaeda further complicates the picture as opposition activists strive to appear as peaceful victims of state oppression . 
`` The EU 's first goal is an immediate cessation of killings and therefore we are very supportive of any initiative that can help achieve this objective , including a stronger Arab presence on the ground in co-operation with the UN to achieve a ceasefire and the end of violence . '' 
He added : `` We renew our urgent calls on all members of the Security Council to be constructive and act with responsibility at this crucial moment . '' 
Russia said on Monday that it was studying the plan but that it needed `` clarification '' . 
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said there had to be ceasefire in place before any peacekeepers could be sent . 
`` But the problem is that the armed groups that are fighting the Syrian regime do not answer to anyone and are not controlled by anyone , '' he said . 
China , meanwhile , said Syria 's problems needed to be resolved by diplomatic means . 
Foreign ministry spokesman Liu Weimin said : `` China hopes all relevant parties can keep dialogue and communication to play a positive and constructive role in politically resolving the Syrian issue and easing the country 's tension . '' 
Speaking while on a visit to South Africa , UK Foreign Secretary William Hague said : `` I do n't see the way forward in Syria as being Western boots on the ground , in any form , including in peacekeeping form , but of course if such a concept could be made viable we will be supporting it in all the usual ways . '' 
The BBC 's Jeremy Bowen in Cairo says the new Arab League resolution contains its toughest language on Syria so far and makes it much more likely that the issue will return to the Security Council . 
The fact that it is considering these moves shows the extent of the Syrian regime 's isolation , our correspondent adds . 
He says it remains to be seen whether Moscow will continue to lend its support to its old allies and trading partners . 
The League 's resolution also formally ends the observer mission it sent to Syria in December . 
It was suspended in January amid criticism that it was ineffective in the face of continuing violence . 
The head of that mission , the controversial Sudanese General Mohammed al-Dabi , had submitted his resignation on Sunday . 
Earlier , al-Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri backed the Syrian uprising in a video message , telling the opposition not to rely on the West or Arab countries for support . 
There have been reports that US officials suspect al-Qaeda involvement in two deadly blasts in the second city of Aleppo last week . 
Meanwhile , fresh violence in the Syrian city of Homs was reported on Monday . 
`` Tank shelling has been non-stop on Baba Amr and the bombardment on al-Waer -LRB- district -RRB- began overnight , '' activist Mohammad al-Hassan told Reuters . 
Activists say more than 400 people have been killed since security forces launched an assault on opposition-held areas on the city this month . 
Human rights groups say more than 7,000 have died throughout Syria since last March . 
The government says at least 2,000 members of the security forces have been killed combating `` armed gangs and terrorists '' . 
Syria restricts access to foreign media and it is not possible to verify casualty figures . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


13 February 12 09:54 GMT The situation in Syria has never looked bleaker nor closer to civil war . 
Almost a year after the uprising against President Bashar al-Assad 's government began , Syrian security forces have stepped up military operations to crush the opposition movement in key cities and towns . 
In Homs , the center of the revolution , the security forces are now using heavy weapons including artillery , rockets and mortars to bombard residential areas . 
The result : in less than a fortnight , more than 400 people have been killed , including women and many children , according to opposition activists . 
The BBC 'S Paul Wood , who witnessed the onslaught at first hand , has returned with stories of extraordinary brutality . 
He was shown a video taken from the phone of a member of the feared government paramilitary force , the Shabiha . 
In the video , prisoners are systematically beheaded as they lie on the ground with their hands tied behind their backs . 
In response , rebel fighters say if they catch members of the Shabiha , they kill them . 
Meanwhile , the hand-wringing continues within the international community . 
The latest Arab League proposal for a joint UN-Arab peacekeeping mission for Syria is more a mark of desperation about what to do than an idea that could be implemented in the current circumstances . 
Already foreign military intervention has been ruled out partly because of concerns about the impact on the wider region , while diplomatic action in the UN Security Council is being blocked by Russia and China . 
And although officials say the situation in Syria is a `` human tragedy on a large scale '' , the idea of setting up humanitarian corridors and no-fly zones has been described by one Western diplomat as `` not realistic '' because they would need to be protected . 
There is also reluctance among Western countries to start arming and training the Syrian rebels because it might tip Syria into a full-blown civil war . 
But where Western countries now fear to tread , others seem to be stepping in . 
The BBC has been told by a well-placed source who did not wish to be named that traditional smuggling routes through Iraq have been used since last autumn to ferry money to rebel fighters inside Syria . 
It is alleged the money is coming from Saudi Arabia , after members of the Shammar tribe in eastern Syria who have joined the uprising against President Assad appealed for help from their fellow tribesmen in Saudi Arabia . 
The smuggling routes pass through the Iraqi provinces of al-Anbar and Nineveh , where the long desert border with Syria is easy to cross . 
In a recent interview with the AFP news agency , Iraq 's deputy interior minister Adnan al-Assadi confirmed these routes were also being used for smuggling weapons and Iraqi militants who want to fight alongside the Syrian rebels . 
`` The weapons are transported from Baghdad to Nineveh , '' he said . 
`` And the prices of weapons in Mosul -LRB- the province 's capital -RRB- are higher now because they are being sent to the opposition in Syria . '' 
The movement of militants from Iraq into Syria could increase following the release of a video on Saturday by al-Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri , in which he called on Muslims across the region to support the Syrian uprising . 
The Syrian rebels , who are believed to include several distinct groupings , including ordinary people protecting their communities , army defectors and militant Islamists , are also reported to have been buying weapons from Lebanon . 
This is more difficult than the Iraqi route , but sources say an Islamist group based in northern Lebanon may itself be funnelling some supplies and fighters into Syria . 
But in reality , the current supply routes through Iraq and Lebanon are extremely unlikely to make much difference on the ground where the rebels face a well-equipped army of more than 200,000 soldiers . 
What is not clear at the moment is whether key members of the Arab League will now consider providing weapons and training for the Syrian opposition , having pledged at their meeting in Cairo on Sunday to provide `` all forms of political and material support '' to the opposition . 


The Syrian city of Homs has experienced days of heavy shelling Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao says Beijing will `` absolutely not protect any party '' in the conflict in Syria . 
Speaking after talks with EU chiefs in Beijing , he said China would `` continue to play a constructive role '' . 
China and Russia vetoed a UN resolution on Syria 10 days ago , sparking claims from the UN rights chief that action against protesters has intensified . 
Meanwhile activists say the city of Homs , under heavy attack for more than a week , is suffering fresh bombardment . 
The Local Co-ordination Committees group said that the shelling was `` brutal '' and was the worst for several days . 
On Monday , the United Nations ' human rights chief , Navi Pillay , said the veto by China and Russia had encouraged President Bashar al-Assad 's government to carry out indiscriminate shelling of civilians in Homs . 
In a special session of the UN General Assembly , Ms Pillay accused the Syrian government of launching an all-out assault to crush opposition dissent . 
She said that at least 300 people had been killed in the assault on Homs , and that the number of dead and injured continued to rise every day . 
Mr Wen 's comments came as he addressed a joint news conference in Beijing 's Great Hall of the People with European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso and European Council President Herman Van Rompuy . 
He insisted that China remained committed to peace in Syria . 
`` What is most urgent and pressing now is to prevent war and chaos so that the Syrian people will be freed from greater sufferings , '' he said . 
`` This accords with the fundamental interests of the Syrian people and also will contribute to the peace and stability of the entire Middle East region . 
`` To achieve this objective , China supports all efforts consistent with the UN charter purposes and principles , and we are ready to strengthen communication with all parties in Syria and the international community and continue to play a constructive role . 
`` China will absolutely not protect any party , including the government of Syria . '' 
Mr Van Rompuy said all UN Security Council members should act on Syria . 
As the European Parliament in Strasbourg prepares to debate the violence in Syria , a senior Liberal MEP , Guy Verhofstadt , has told the BBC Europe should consider giving weapons to the Free Syrian Army . 
But other MEPs , including the British conservative MEP Charles Tannock , say the situation in Syria is too complex and advises caution . 
Meanwhile German Chancellor Angela Merkel has praised the Arab League 's stance on the Syria crisis . 
Arab League Secretary-General Nabil al-Araby calls for killings in Syria to stop `` right now '' Speaking as she welcomed the organization 's Secretary General , Nabil al-Araby , to Berlin , she said the league 's `` firm '' position `` clearly points out the human rights violations committed by the Assad government '' . 
`` The European Union supports this position and we will underline it through further sanctions , '' she said . 
Mr Araby said that the killings in Syria should stop `` right now '' , and said that the `` winds of change '' that had swept through the Arab countries in the past year had been about people demanding what Europeans had had for a long time : liberty , democracy , social justice , dignity and good governance . 
Human rights groups say more than 7,000 have died throughout Syria since last March . 
The government says at least 2,000 members of the security forces have been killed combating `` armed gangs and terrorists '' . 
However , Syria restricts access to foreign media and it is not possible to verify casualty figures . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria crisis : China sends senior envoy Syrian army tanks at the entrance to the Baba Amr neighborhood in Homs China says it is sending a senior envoy to Syria in a bid to find a peaceful resolution to the country 's crisis . 
Deputy Foreign Minister Zhai Jun will go to the capital , Damascus , on Friday . 
China was widely criticised for vetoing a UN Security Council resolution urging Syria 's leader to step down . 
The UN General Assembly is to vote later on an Arab-sponsored resolution condemning Syria 's government . 
Human rights groups say some 7,000 civilians have been killed there since March . 
The resolution also backs an Arab League plan calling for President Bashar al-Assad to hand power to his vice-president . 
The measure can not be vetoed in the assembly , but the resolution would be non-binding . 
Ahead of the vote , the UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon called on Syrian authorities to stop killing civilians , and said crimes against humanity might be taking place in the country . 
Officially , Beijing has a policy of non-interference in other countries ' affairs . 
But as China 's become more influential , it 's a policy that it is finding harder to maintain . 
In the case of Syria , Beijing remains wary about Western intentions . 
An editorial in the People 's Daily newspaper - the mouthpiece of the Communist Party - warned that the violence in Syria could worsen if foreign powers intervened . 
It also stated that America 's aim was to establish a friendly government in Syria - in order to counter the influence of Iran . 
`` We see neighborhoods shelled indiscriminately , hospitals used as torture centres , children as young as 10 years old killed and abused . 
We see almost a certain crimes against humanity , '' he told reporters during a visit to Austria , where he was attending an international conference on drug trafficking in Afghanistan . 
Mr Ban said it was `` regrettable '' that the previous resolution put before the UN Security Council had been vetoed by China and Russia , but that the lack of agreement `` does not give the government licence to continue this assault on its own people '' . 
French and Russian foreign ministers Alain Juppe and Sergei Lavrov were also at the Vienna conference and held talks on their sidelines , with Mr Juppe hoping to convince his Russian counterpart to back the latest measures against Syria . 
Russia , like China , has opposed what it sees as forced regime change in Syria , and has raised concerns about the possibility of military involvement . 
Mr Juppe said it was `` perfectly clear in this resolution that there is no military option '' but that he had told Russia accepting the status quo was not an option . 
He also dismissed Syrian plans to hold a referendum on a new draft constitution as `` a farce '' . 
`` How can you propose a referendum on the 26 February while at the same time continuing to attack your own innocent people in some Syrian towns ? '' 
Mr Lavrov said he had received no new proposals from France in their meeting , but that Mr Juppe had told him France was thinking about a new resolution focused on humanitarian aid . 
In Beijing , Mr Zhai said that China did not approve of armed intervention or forcing so-called `` regime change '' in Syria . 
In an interview posted on the Chinese foreign ministry website , he condemned violence against civilians and called for the government to respect the people 's `` legitimate '' desire for reform . 
He also said sanctions or the threat of sanctions were `` not conducive to the appropriate resolution of this issue '' . 
A Chinese foreign ministry spokesman would not say if Mr Zhai would also meet Syrian opposition representatives during the two-day visit . 
`` I believe the message of this visit is that China hopes for a peaceful and proper resolution of the Syrian situation , and that the Chinese side will play a constructive role in the mediation , '' spokesman Liu Weimin said . 
Last week , Mr Zhai met a Syrian opposition delegation in Beijing . 
In Syria itself , government forces are reported to have launched a new attack on the town of Deraa in the south of the country , where the rebellion first started in March last year . 
There are also reports of violence on the eastern border with Iraq , and in Kfar Nabuda in the central Hama province , where a number of rebel soldiers are reported to have been killed , along with several civilians . 
Activists say at least 40 people were killed across the country on Thursday . 
There are also reports of more shelling by government forces in Homs , which has along with Hama been hit by major government offensives . 
In an interview with the BBC , Prince Hassan of Jordan said there was a danger of Syria `` subdividing '' along its various ethnic and religious lines , with each group `` afraid for their own future '' . 
He called for `` heavyweight diplomacy '' to draw attention to the opposition within Syria , and said `` a conversation has to be held '' between the Syrian authorities and all opposition groups . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


BBC 's Jim Muir : `` There 's no dialogue except on the battlefield '' A senior Chinese envoy has held talks with officials in Syria , in what Beijing says is an attempt to mediate in the crisis as bloodshed continues . 
The visit by Deputy Foreign Minister Zhai Jun comes a day after Beijing voted against a UN resolution calling for an end to violence . 
Fighting continued on Friday in Syria , with activists saying that at least 40 people were killed by security forces . 
Some were reportedly shot dead in Homs , where the army resumed shelling . 
One opposition group said the bombardment was the heaviest since troops of President Bashar al-Assad launched attacks on anti-government strongholds 13 days ago . 
Such claims have not been verified independently , as most of foreign media are banned from reporting in Syria . 
Mr Zhai met his Syrian counterpart , Faisal Mekdad , in the capital , Damascus - the outcome of their meeting was not immediately announced . 
He also met members of the opposition during his visit . 
Beijing said it was hoping for `` a peaceful and proper resolution of the Syrian situation , and that the Chinese side will play a constructive role in the mediation '' . 
Beijing , along with Russia , vetoed a UN Security Council resolution on Syria last month - put forward by the Arab League - which called for an immediate end to the violence and for Mr Assad to hand over power to his deputy . 
They said it amounted to forced regime change and violated Syria 's sovereignty , and raised concerns about the possibility of future military involvement . 
Homs has experienced days of heavy shelling Both countries also voted against the similar resolution which went before the General Assembly on Thursday . 
The motion was eventually carried by 137 votes to 12 . 
General Assembly resolution do not carry the legal weight of those in the Security Council , but it was hoped it would increase the diplomatic and moral pressure on Damascus . 
International criticism of the Assad regime continued on Friday , with the US Senate passing a resolution condemning its `` brutal and unjustifiable use of force against civilians '' and expressing disappointment in the Russian and Chinese positions . 
It 's unbelievable - extreme violence the like of which we have never seen before '' End Quote Hadi Abdullah General Commission of the Syrian Revolution After talks in Paris , British Prime Minister David Cameron and French President Nicolas Sarkozy said they would continue to support opposition groups in Syria and had discussed getting humanitarian aid to those affected by the violence . 
Mr Sarkozy stressed that `` the revolution will not be brought about from outside , it will be brought about from the inside '' . 
US Secretary of State also discussed the crisis with EU foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton , who was visiting Washington . 
`` In the face of this global condemnation , the regime in Damascus appears to be escalating its assaults on civilians , '' said Mrs Clinton . 
She said the US would `` keep working to pressure and isolate the regime , to support the opposition and to provide relief to the people of Syria '' . 
Meanwhile , Mr Assad is pushing his own reform process , which will see a new constitution put to a referendum on 26 February . 
Damascus says the referendum will ensure a truly multi-party democracy , with a two-term limit placed on the presidency , but critics have dismissed it as a farcical exercise while the violence continues . 
`` The main problem is not the constitution , but the fact that the state has complete control over the army and security forces . 
As long as you keep that , everything else is just empty promises . '' 
Anas al-Abdah , a member of the main opposition group the Syrian National Council , told the BBC earlier this week . 
Many in the Syrian opposition are calling for a boycott of the vote . 
Rights groups say more than 7,000 people have been killed since the uprising began in April . 
On Friday , large numbers took to the streets after prayers - as they have for months - to call for Mr Assad 's departure . 
Activists said that as in previous weeks , the protesters had come under attack from security forces who cordoned off many areas and arrested people taking part . 
Government shells were again fired at Homs , where the rebel soldiers of the Free Syrian Army have dug in and which has been under bombardment for a fortnight . 
`` It 's the most violent in 14 days . 
It 's unbelievable - extreme violence the like of which we have never seen before , '' said Hadi Abdullah of the General Commission of the Syrian Revolution . 
He told the AFP news agency the city was in urgent need of humanitarian help . 
`` There are thousands of people isolated in Homs . 
There are neighborhoods that we know nothing about . 
I myself do not know if my parents are okay . 
I have had no news from them for 14 days Violence was also reported in the southern province of Deraa , Aleppo in the north , in Deir ez-Zor close to the Iraq border and in several suburbs of Damascus . 
Five people were shot dead in Mezze , on the capital 's western edge , activists said . 
`` Government troops are shelling everything , whether it 's buildings , people , houses , '' said Seif , who had fled across the border to Jordan from Deraa . 
He told the Associated Press news agency : `` They consider us nothing . 
They want to eliminate us totally . '' 
The BBC 's Jim Muir , reporting from Beirut , says there appears for now to be little chance of China 's attempts at mediation working . 
The government has clearly decided to go for broke in suppressing defiance , especially armed resistance , says our correspondent . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


The moment when the UN approved the resolution The Arab-backed initiative , which also calls on President Bashar al-Assad to resign , is the latest of several attempts to bring an end to the crisis . 
Syria said the move would only worsen the crisis and encourage `` terrorists '' . 
Earlier , China said it was sending a senior envoy to Damascus to negotiate a `` peaceful and proper '' solution . 
The non-binding resolution adopted by the General Assembly backs an Arab League plan aimed at stopping the killings . 
It was modelled on an earlier resolution in the Security Council that was vetoed by Russia and China . 
Barbara Plett BBC News , United Nations The General Assembly was very much a Plan B - the Arab sponsors of the resolution and their Western allies had wanted the legal weight of the Security Council backing their political plan to end Syria 's crisis . 
But with the Council blocked by Russian and Chinese vetoes , they turned to what is in effect the `` world 's parliament , '' hoping that a non-binding endorsement from the 193-member body would lend moral and political clout to their initiative . 
They hailed the strong majority vote as a clear message of international support to the Syrian people and a demonstration that Bashar al-Assad had never been more isolated . 
But there was no disguising that the major powers are as deeply divided as ever . 
Russia continued to argue that the text was unbalanced , because it made no specific demands of the armed opposition and attempted to sideline the Syrian leadership . 
Even some countries which voted yes said Russia had a point -LRB- these issues will have to be addressed sooner or later , said Serbia ; India said much the same -RRB- . 
But in the meantime the impasse continues , which suggests diplomacy will increasingly look elsewhere for a solution , and the violence in Syria will probably get worse . 
Unlike its precursor , the resolution endorsed by the assembly has no legal authority , but the BBC 's Barbara Plett , at the UN , said its backers hope it would increase political pressure on Damascus to end the violence . 
Egypt introduced the resolution to the chamber and urged delegates to reach a consensus which would send a strong message to the Syrian authorities . 
`` We demand that the Syrian government heed the demands of the Arab and Syrian people and staunch the bloodshed , '' said deputy ambassador Osama Abdelkhalek . 
But Syria 's ambassador Bashar Jaafari said a yes vote would only be a message of support to the `` extremists and terrorists '' Damascus declares it is fighting . 
Mr Jaafari said the resolution `` would only lead to a tightening of the crisis , and more violence in the region as a whole '' . 
As expected , China and Russia again voted against the measure . 
Both have firmly opposed what they see as forced regime change and have raised concerns about the possibility of international military involvement . 
Before the vote , Russia 's Deputy Foreign Minister Gennady Gatilov said the resolution was `` unbalanced '' so Moscow would not back it . 
`` It directs all the demands at the government , and says nothing about the opposition , '' Russian media quoted him as saying . 
Venezuela , which also voted no , said the motion denied Syria its sovereignty and was being used by some parties to `` promote a civil war on a large scale '' . 
The resolution was approved by 137 votes to 12 against , with 17 abstentions . 
Vetoes are not allowed in the assembly . 
Three countries said technical problems prevented them from voting . 
The US voted in favor , with ambassador Susan Rice saying it `` sent a clear message to the people of Syria - the world is with you '' . 
`` An overwhelming majority of UN member states have backed the plan put forward by the Arab League to end the suffering of Syrians , '' she said . 
`` Bashar al-Assad has never been more isolated . '' 
Earlier in the day , UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon had called on Syrian authorities to stop killing civilians , and said crimes against humanity might be taking place in the country . 
Syria 's ambassador Bashar Jaafari said the vote would make the violence worse `` We see neighborhoods shelled indiscriminately , hospitals used as torture centres , children as young as 10 years old killed and abused . 
We see almost certain crimes against humanity , '' he said . 
Mr Ban said the previous vetoes were `` regrettable '' , but that the lack of agreement `` does not give the government licence to continue this assault on its own people '' . 
Chinese Deputy Foreign Minister Zhai Jun , who will go to Damascus on Friday , condemned violence against civilians and called for the government to respect the people 's `` legitimate '' desire for reform . 
But in the interview , posted on the Chinese foreign ministry website , he also said sanctions or the threat of sanctions were `` not conducive to the appropriate resolution of this issue '' . 
A Chinese foreign ministry spokesman would not say if Mr Zhai would also meet Syrian opposition representatives during the two-day visit . 
Last week , Mr Zhai met a Syrian opposition delegation in Beijing . 
In Syria itself , at least 40 people were killed on Thursday , activists said . 
Government forces are reported to have launched a new attack on the town of Deraa in the south of the country , where the rebellion first began . 
The London-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said there were fears of a massacre in the Deraa province village of Sahm al-Julan , where dozens of civilians had disappeared . 
`` Witnesses said security forces shot at the civilians and then piled them onto pick-up trucks . 
Their fate is unknown , '' the group said in a statement . 
There are also reports of violence on the eastern border with Iraq , and in Kfar Nabuda in the central Hama province , where a number of rebel soldiers are reported to have been killed , along with several civilians . 
Shelling by government forces was reported in Homs , which has along with Hama been hit by major government offensives . 
There were also reports that prominent pro-democracy blogger Razan Ghazzawi had been arrested , along with Mazen Darwish , head of the Syrian Centre for Media and Freedom Of Expression , and a dozen other people . 
Restrictions on journalists mean such reports are difficult to verify . 
Human rights groups say 7,000 civilians have been killed in Syria since the uprising against Mr Assad began last March . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria crisis : Red Cross presses for humanitarian truce The Red Cross is the only international aid agency working in Syria The International Committee of the Red Cross says it is in talks with `` all those concerned '' in Syria 's conflict to negotiate a ceasefire . 
The group says it wants to negotiate a brief truce in the most affected areas to allow it to deliver aid packages . 
Correspondents say the fact that the ICRC has spoken publicly about the negotiations shows just how concerned it is by the situation in Syria . 
Thousands have died there in an 11-month uprising against the government . 
ICRC spokesman Bijan Farnoudi said the group was `` discussing several possibilities '' to enable humanitarian aid to be delivered . 
He said the aim of the discussions was `` to facilitate swift Syrian Arab Red Crescent and ICRC access to the people in need '' . 
`` The content of the discussions we are having with the Syrian authorities and all those involved in the fighting remains bilateral and confidential , '' he added . 
The Red Cross indicated that any such ceasefire would probably be only for a limited period , possibly only a few hours . 
Homs has been repeatedly shelled by government forces The ICRC has been delivering food and medicine to civilians in Syria since the start of the uprising against President Bashar al-Assad . 
It is the only international aid agency operating inside the country , but it has had difficulty reaching the areas badly affected by the conflict . 
The BBC 's Imogen Foulkes in Geneva , where the ICRC is based , says it is very unusual for the organization to discuss any talks it might be having with participants in an armed conflict . 
Following a visit at the weekend by China 's Deputy Foreign Minister Zhai Jun , Mr Assad hosted prominent Russian politician Alexei Pushkov on Monday in Damascus . 
Imogen Foulkes BBC News , Geneva The ICRC says conditions in Homs and Bludan are deteriorating , and that the sick and wounded are bearing the brunt of the violence . 
It is likely the Red Cross wants a ceasefire in these areas in order to deliver food and medical supplies , and to evacuate the wounded . 
A senior official from the Syrian Red Crescent was shot dead last month while traveling in a clearly marked vehicle . 
The ICRC also says its ambulances have been regularly subjected to harassment and unnecessary delays . 
It seems that without at least a temporary ceasefire , the ICRC does not believe it can do its job in Syria at all . 
Syria 's Sana state news agency said Mr Assad had thanked Mr Pushkov for Russia 's support , repeating his insistence that his country is tackling `` armed terrorist groups receiving funding and arms from foreign parties , aiming to destabilise Syria '' . 
Mr Pushkov had stressed the need for all parties to `` to continue working for a political solution to the crisis based on dialogue between all concerned parties , without foreign intervention '' , Sana reported . 
After Mr Zhai 's visit , the official newspaper of the Chinese Communist Party accused the West of provoking a civil war in Syria . 
Russia and China have both refused to join the growing international condemnation of Mr Assad 's regime . 
Both countries vetoed a resolution in the UN Security Council condemning the violence and voted against a similar General Assembly resolution , saying they amounted to forced regime change . 
However , Arab League Secretary-General Nabil Elaraby said on Monday there were `` indications coming from China and to some extent from Russia that there may be a change in position '' , without giving further details . 
The London-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said 16 people people were killed across the country on Monday . 
Nine of them - including three children in one family - died in renewed shelling of the city of Homs , they said . 
Activists say government forces are being reinforced around Homs , and they fear that a ground assault on the city is planned . 
Hadi Abdallah , an activist in Homs , has called for women and children to flee from the heavily bombarded area of Baba Amr . 
He told the AFP news agency that residents of the suburb were living in cold and `` unsustainable '' conditions , and that they were `` awaiting death '' . 
Another activist told the Associated Press that government forces would face stiff opposition in Homs and the residents would fight until `` the last person '' . 
Mr Assad is pressing ahead with his plan to hold a referendum on Sunday on a new constitution for Syria . 
The vote has been dismissed as `` farcical '' by the US and others . 
Opposition groups have called on Syrians to boycott the referendum . 
Omar Idilbi , a Beirut-based member of the main opposition movement the Syrian National Council -LRB- SNC -RRB- , said it `` can not be held while parts of Syria are a war zone '' . 
Human rights groups believe more than 7,000 people have been killed since the uprising began . 
The Syrian government says at least 2,000 members of the security forces have died fighting militants . 
Syria restricts access to foreign media and it is not possible to verify casualty figures . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria unrest : Reporters ' deaths spark Western outrage Marie Colvin and Remi Ochlik were killed in a makeshift media center in Homs Sunday Times reporter Marie Colvin , an American , and French photographer Remi Ochlik died in shelling by Syria 's government forces . 
The US said it was `` another example of the shameless brutality '' of the regime . 
French President Nicolas Sarkozy said : `` That 's enough ... The regime must go . '' 
Syrian troops have been shelling opposition-held areas of Homs for weeks . 
Thousands have died since the unrest erupted last March . 
The International Red Cross said it hoped Wednesday 's deaths would draw the attention of the world to the many hundreds of other people suffering in Syria . 
It earlier urged the government and rebels to agree to a daily ceasefire , to allow medical supplies to reach the worst affected areas and get civilians out . 
However , there is no sign yet of this being agreed . 
Colvin , 56 , and Ochlik , 28 , were reportedly staying in a house in Homs ' area of Baba Amr that was being used by activists as a media center when it was hit by a shell on Wednesday morning . 
Marie would not want any tribute to leave out mention of the people she met , the stories she heard . 
She often spoke of how humbled she was by the `` quiet bravery of civilians '' . 
We 've come to expect that wherever something of consequence was happening , Marie would be there . 
Her signature was not just to go to a story , but to stay for as long as she could , regardless of the danger or discomfort . 
She admired the pioneering journalism of fellow American Martha Gelhorn . 
I always saw her as the Martha of our generation : brave and beautiful . 
A woman with a wicked laugh , a sensitive soul , and a steely determination to tell the stories that mattered . 
She had both guts and glamour . 
I remember a conversation long ago where she told me a partner wanted her to be what she called a `` Laura Ashley '' - pretty and perfect in the home . 
But that was n't Marie and she knew it . 
She was , without exception , a kind and considerate colleague and fellow traveller , a woman who inspired and engaged . 
At least two other foreign journalists were wounded , activists said . 
One was named as British freelance photographer Paul Conroy , who was working with Colvin , and Edith Bouvier of the French newspaper , Le Figaro . 
Bouvier was said to be in a serious condition . 
The dead and the injured journalists are said to have been taken to a field clinic in Baba Amr . 
Activists have expressed fears that Bouvier risks bleeding to death without urgent medical attention and they were trying to get her out . 
Syrian state TV said the information ministry had asked officials in Homs to determine the location of foreign journalists because it had learned that some may have been injured . 
In Washington , US State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said : `` This tragic incident is another example of the shameless brutality of the Assad regime . '' 
Earlier , the US warned that it was not ruling out taking `` additional measures '' to assist the rebels if the government onslaught continued . 
In Paris , French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said his country held the Syrian government accountable for the deaths . 
`` Damascus owes us an answer , '' Mr Juppe said . 
UK Prime Minister David Cameron told parliament : `` This is a desperately sad reminder of the risks that journalists take to inform the world of what is happening , and the dreadful events in Syria . '' 
Later , the Syrian ambassador to London was summoned to be told that the UK expected Damascus to arrange for the immediate repatriation of the journalists ' bodies and to provide medical treatment for the injured British journalist . 
The editor of the Sunday Times , John Witherow , said the newspaper was doing what it could to recover Colvin 's body and get Conroy to safety . 
`` Marie was an extraordinary figure in the life of the Sunday Times , driven by a passion to cover wars in the belief that what she did mattered , '' he added . 
`` She believed profoundly that reporting could curtail the excesses of brutal regimes and make the international community take notice . '' 
Her mother told journalists Colvin 's legacy was : `` Be passionate and be involved in what you believe in . 
And do it as thoroughly and honestly and fearlessly as you can . '' 
Ochlik had reported from Haiti and covered many of the recent uprisings in the Arab world . 
Sunday Times Editor John Witherow : `` She may have been targeted '' Colvin had been a foreign correspondent for the Sunday Times for two decades , and had reported from several war zones . 
She lost the sight in one eye in Sri Lanka in 2001 after being hit by shrapnel . 
On Tuesday , she told the BBC the bombardment of Baba Amr by Syrian government artillery and tanks had been `` unrelenting '' . 
`` I watched a little baby die today , absolutely horrific , a two year old - found the shrapnel had gone into the left chest and the doctor said : ' I ca n't do anything , ' and his little tummy just kept heaving until he died . 
That is happening over and over and over . 
But increasingly , they have risked entering the country undercover , helped by networks of activists , to report from flashpoints . 
Last month , the French television journalist , Gilles Jacquier , was killed in Homs while visiting the city on a government-organised trip . 
Anthony Shadid , of the New York Times , died of an apparent asthma attack in Syria last week . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


UN panel draws up Syria crimes against humanity list The Homs neighborhood of Baba Amr has endured weeks of daily shelling A United Nations panel has delivered a list of Syrian officials who could be investigated for crimes against humanity . 
Experts commissioned by the UN say army officers and government officials are responsible for human rights violations . 
Syrian forces have renewed shelling of the opposition stronghold of Homs . 
There is growing pressure on Damascus to give access to civilians trapped by the onslaught . 
The US , Europe and Arab countries plan to challenge President Bashar al-Assad to provide humanitarian access within days to the worst affected areas . 
They plan to present their ultimatum at Friday 's international conference on Syria in Tunisia . 
The UN had asked a panel of experts to report on the situation in Syria , in a follow up to an investigation published in November . 
Imogen Foulkes BBC News , Geneva The UN report documents the last three months in Syria , during which , the investigators say , the violence has reached new and terrible levels . 
They have evidence that Syrian forces have shot dead women and children , subjected civilian areas to merciless shelling , and tortured wounded protestors in hospital . 
These systematic violations were ordered by high ranking figures in the military and government , the report says . 
The investigators have compiled a confidential list of names of those they believe are responsible and sent it to the UN Human Rights Commissioner . 
The implication is that those people - and President Assad is likely to be among them - will one day appear at the International Criminal Court . 
The new report finds that Syria has become increasingly militarised , and accuses security forces of gross and systematic human rights violations . 
The evidence against some senior Syrian army officers and government officials is such that the team has sent a list of their names and their alleged crimes to the UN human rights commissioner . 
The UN secretary general says he wants to send his humanitarian chief to Syria to negotiate access to Homs . 
Dozens of people were killed in Syria on Wednesday , including journalists Marie Colvin and Remi Ochlik . 
Their deaths brought further condemnation of the Syrian government , which has denied responsibility for the killings . 
Aid workers trying to retrieve the journalists ' bodies say they may have to be buried in Syria , as the roads out of Homs are blocked by the Syrian army . 
On Thursday , rockets , artillery and mortar rounds pounded the opposition stronghold of Baba Amr , Inshaat and Khalidiya , activists said . 
Activist Hadi Abdullah told AFP that he could hear `` terrifying explosions '' . 
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said a ceasefire was `` imperative '' to enable food and medical supplies to be brought into Homs , which has been under siege since 4 February . 
The city is one of the focal points of the uprising against the government of President Assad . 
UK Foreign Secretary William Hague said the international community would be looking at further ways to apply pressure to Mr Assad . 
`` It is a deeply frustrating situation that people have been dying in their thousands ... that the Assad regime has continued to act seemingly with impunity - but I think we can agree to a wider set of measures across a large group of nations , '' Mr Hague said . 
The European Union sanctions on Syria could be tightened further , Mr Hague added . 
Marie Colvin of the Sunday Times and French photographer Remi Ochlik were killed on Wednesday morning in the house in which they were staying in Baba Amr . 
Three other Western journalists were wounded in the strike on the house , among them a British photographer , Paul Conroy , whose injuries are not thought to be life-threatening , and the French reporter Edith Bouvier . 
Her situation is believed to be more serious . 
France and the UK have demanded that they be given urgent medical assistance . 
The editor of the Sunday Times , John Witherow , said he thought it was possible that the journalists had been deliberately targeted , speculating that government forces may have been able to use technology to identify their precise location . 
`` It seems to me perfectly reasonable to assume that they would have targeted them , '' he told the BBC . 
World and Arab leaders are due to meet in Tunisia on Friday to discuss Syria 's future . 
But Russia , a key ally of President Assad , says it will not attend the `` Friends of Syria '' meeting because the Syrian government would not be represented . 
Russia and China have faced Western and Arab criticism for blocking a UN Security Council resolution that would have backed an Arab League peace plan for Syria . 
Opposition groups claim more than 7,500 people have been killed since the start of the uprising 11 months ago . 
The Syrian government says at least 2,000 of its forces have died fighting `` armed terrorists , '' as it calls the rebels . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


By Jonathan Marcus BBC Defense and Diplomatic Correspondent , in Tunis Syrian opposition protesters clashed with police outside the talks in Tunis Urgency but also frustration marked this inaugural gathering of the Friends of Syria grouping . 
Urgency because of the worsening situation on the ground - but frustration because even the participants knew than none of the measures discussed at the Tunis meeting are likely to bring about the fall of the regime of Bashar al-Assad anytime soon . 
Rumour has it that the Saudi Foreign Minister , Prince Saud al-Faisal , walked out early in frustration at the limited ambitions for this meeting . 
Or did he , as his officials say , have to go to a bilateral meeting ? 
It is clear the Saudis do feel unhappy with the pace of developments and the kind of consensus-driven diplomacy that dominates these kinds of events . 
In a meeting with US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton , Prince Saud al-Faisal was asked if he thought arming the Syrian opposition was a good idea . 
`` I think it 's an excellent idea , '' he replied , suggesting that direction in which his country 's stance may be heading . 
I asked one prominent Western minister if he thought that certain Gulf countries might already be funding or delivering arms supplies to the Syrian opposition . 
His answer was non-committal - accompanied by a smile and a wink - suggesting perhaps that this assertion was not too far from the truth . 
For now it is events on the ground that are set to determine Syria 's fate , not diplomatic maneuvers beyond its borders '' So what was achieved here in Tunis ? 
The main Syrian opposition group - the Syrian National Council - received a boost to its standing . 
It is now to be seen by Western and Arab League governments as a legitimate representative of the Syrian people . 
Not `` the '' legitimate representative - it is not yet a government-in-waiting . 
The hope is that it will step up its efforts to appeal to all sectors of Syrian society and that other groups will coalesce around it to form a much more representative body . 
In truth though , diplomats have to deal with the opposition they have , not the one they would like . 
There was also agreement to step up preparations to get humanitarian aid into cities like Homs . 
The US and others are putting up money . 
But this all depends upon the Syrian authorities granting humanitarian access . 
The small-scale evacuation of casualties from Homs by the International Committee of the Red Cross -LRB- ICRC -RRB- and the Syrian Red Crescent Society is a small positive step , but nobody knows if it will lead to similar humanitarian opportunities . 
The reinforcement of economic and diplomatic sanctions was discussed too , but as British Foreign Secretary William Hague admitted , their effect would be cumulative over time rather than immediate . 
Hillary Clinton launched a stinging attack on Russia and China There were , however , some diplomatic fireworks . 
Speaking at the end of the meeting , Mrs Clinton launched a stinging attack against Russia and China for their behavior in blocking a Syria resolution at the UN Security Council . 
Indeed Moscow came in for additional scorn for continuing to arm the Syrian military . 
There is no disguising the dismay and some anger here , especially at Russia 's position , though the condemnation directed at Moscow could be counter-productive . 
Indeed , if there is to be any kind of transition in Syria - short of the wholesale collapse of the regime - Russian diplomacy , given its close friendship with the Assad family over the years , could be an asset . 
So the success or failure of this meeting really depends upon how you view it . 
In diplomatic terms there were some modest achievements . 
New mechanisms have been put in place to keep the Syrian crisis at the forefront of the international agenda . 
Former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan has been appointed as the joint UN and Arab League Special Envoy for Syria . 
And the Friends of Syria group is set to meet again soon - first in Turkey and then in France . 
It looks like preparations for the long haul . 
Viewed perhaps from the perspective of some of the key actors in the region and especially from the Syrian opposition 's point of view , this meeting fell way short . 
It did little to change one fundamental fact . 
For now it is events on the ground that are set to determine Syria 's fate , not diplomatic maneuvers beyond its borders . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria crisis : Red Cross Baba Amr evacuation stalls Activists said there had been more deadly shelling of Homs on Saturday Attempts by the Red Cross to evacuate more people trapped in the Baba Amr suburb of the Syrian city of Homs have stalled , with reports of more deaths from shelling . 
The organization had been in negotiation with the Syrian authorities but had made no progress by nightfall . 
It evacuated several people on Friday but not two injured Western reporters . 
Activists say 50 people died in unrest across Syria on Saturday , nearly half of them in Homs . 
The BBC 's Jim Muir in neighbouring Lebanon says that , throughout the day , the International Committee of the Red Cross -LRB- ICRC -RRB- and Syrian Red Crescent officials had tried to negotiate another evacuation of seriously wounded people from Baba Amr . 
This included the two Western journalists , Edith Bouvier and Paul Conroy , as well as the bodies of another two journalists , Marie Colvin and Remi Ochlik , who were killed last week . 
ICRC spokesman Hisham Hassan said : `` Unfortunately we will not be able to enter Baba Amr today -LRB- Saturday -RRB- . 
We continue our negotiations , hoping that tomorrow we will be able to enter Baba Amr to carry out our life-saving operations . '' 
Footage of mourning in the Khalidieh district of Homs was broadcast on YouTube He said the Syrian Arab Red Crescent had continued to carry out evacuations in other areas of Syria , including two in other neighborhoods of Homs . 
Activists said 11 people were killed on Saturday by renewed shelling in Baba Amr , which has borne the brunt of the army bombardment of Homs that began last month . 
Hundreds of armed rebels from the Free Syrian Army are holding out in the suburb . 
In Khalidieh , a district close to Baba Amr , thousands of mourners packed a square and chanted anti-regime slogans as six coffins were paraded around in a circle . 
They were of people killed in the latest violence . 
In addition to the deaths in and around Homs , the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights also reported that : Security forces shot dead six people in Ezaz in Aleppo province Some 4,000 people took to the streets in Aleppo itself to mourn a protester killed on Friday Six civilians were killed in the villages of Maarazaf and al-Majdel , in Hama province Sixteen members of the security forces were killed in clashes with rebels across the country Meanwhile , international pressure is mounting on President Bashar al-Assad to end his government 's 11-month crackdown on opponents . 
Kofi Annan , the former UN secretary general who has been appointed the UN and Arab League 's envoy to Syria , called for all parties to co-operate in finding a peaceful solution to the crisis . 
On Friday a meeting of the `` Friends of Syria '' group was held in the Tunisian capital , Tunis . 
Delegates from 70 countries issued a declaration calling on the Damascus government to end violence immediately , allow humanitarian access , and permit the delivery of relief supplies . 
The UN estimated in January that 5,400 people had been killed in the conflict . 
Activists say the death toll now is more than 7,300 . 
The Syrian regime restricts access to foreign journalists and casualty figures can not be verified . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria unrest : ` Humanitarian ' vote pressed at UN Dozens have died in the past few days in Homs , opposition activists say A new resolution is being drawn up at the United Nations to focus on humanitarian aid for Syria , in the hope both China and Russia , which have opposed previous votes , will back it . 
Although diplomats said the move was in the early stage , China said it did back `` creating conditions '' for humanitarian aid to be sent . 
A UN meeting on Tuesday was told more than 7,500 had died in Syrian unrest . 
Syrian forces continued to pound the city of Homs on Wednesday . 
Three journalists , Edith Bouvier , William Daniels and Javier Espinosa , are still believed to be trapped in Homs . 
Sunday Times photographer Paul Conroy was smuggled out to Lebanon on Tuesday in an operation that left 13 Syrian opposition activists dead . 
The US and France are working on a new draft UN Security Council resolution seeking access for humanitarian aid workers and an end to violence . 
On 4 February China and Russia blocked a UN resolution backing an Arab plan condemning the crackdown and calling on President Bashar al-Assad to step down . 
Video has been released reportedly showing the aftermath of clashes in Sarmin , near Idlib city One diplomat told Reuters there was a new text but it was not yet a formal draft . 
`` It 's been drafted by the Americans . 
It has n't gone to the full council , just to a small circle of like-minded countries . '' 
Another diplomat told AFP : `` This resolution will concentrate on humanitarian access to the cities , but it will indicate that the government is the cause of the crisis . '' 
The aim is to make it hard for Russia and China , who are opposed to what they say is forced regime change , to use their veto . 
China 's Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi indicated his country was in favor of creating the conditions for aid to be sent . 
Speaking to the head of the Arab League , Nabil Elaraby , over the phone , Mr Yang said China was willing to work with the Arab nations for '' a peaceful and proper settlement of the Syria issue '' , the official Xinhua news agency reported . 
Mr Yang said that it was '' an urgent task '' for opposing sides in Syria to halt violence in order to begin '' an inclusive political dialogue '' . 
Thirty-one-year-old reporter for French daily Le Figaro and Radio France Internationale . 
Sustained a broken femur in the attack which killed US war correspondent Marie Colvin and French photographer Remi Ochlik . 
The 34-year-old Paris-based photographer specialises in documenting humanitarian crises . 
He is represented by the London-based Panos agency and is working with Ms Bouvier on an assignment for Le Figaro . 
Spanish daily El Mundo 's Middle East correspondent . 
He began working for the paper in 1994 , covering the Rwandan genocide . 
Has also reported from Mexico and Morocco for the paper . 
In 1999 , he was kidnapped and held for 48 hours by rebels in Sierra Leone . 
`` The international community should create favourable conditions in this regard and provide humanitarian aid to Syria , '' Xinhua quoted him as saying . 
US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton last week called Russia and China 's veto `` despicable '' - comments the Chinese foreign ministry said were not acceptable . 
Critics have said the effect of the Chinese and Russian vetoes was to provide diplomatic support for the Assad regime , which then escalated its offensives against Homs and other cities . 
The BBC 's Damian Grammaticas in Beijing says China has been stung by the international criticism . 
It now appears to be trying to repair the damage to its diplomatic relations with Arab nations who had urged it to support UN action . 
In recent days China 's state-controlled media has been attacking Western governments , saying that they were pursuing `` hegemonistic ambitions '' under the guise of `` humanitarian concern '' . 
But our correspondent says it is far from clear whether China will or will not veto any new Security Council resolution . 
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said he `` solemnly '' appealed to Beijing and Moscow not to block it . 
Residents of Homs fear the army is planning an imminent ground assault there . 
Faysal Khabbaz Hamoui said the debate was `` fuelling the flames of terrorism '' One activist in the city , Mohammad al-Homsi , told Reuters news agency that the army was moving infantry towards the al-Bassel football stadium just north of the besieged district of Baba Amr , and that `` fierce confrontations with automatic rifles and heavy machineguns are taking place there '' . 
Another activist , Hadi Abdullah , told AFP news agency , power had been cut to most of the city . 
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights says some 100 people were killed in the past two days in the continuing Syrian bombardment of Homs . 
The fate of the remaining journalists remains unclear . 
They left with Mr Conroy but became separated . 
Ms Bouvier and Mr Conroy were both hurt in an earlier attack that killed fellow journalists Marie Colvin and Remi Ochlik . 
The UN 's new estimate of the number of deaths in Syria came at a meeting of the UN Security Council . 
`` There are credible reports that the death toll now often exceeds 100 civilians a day , including many women and children , '' said Lynn Pascoe . 
`` The total killed so far is certainly well over 7,500 people . '' 
The Syrian government says at least 1,345 members of the security forces have been killed combating what it calls `` armed gangs and terrorists '' , and puts the number of civilians killed at 2,493 . 
An emergency meeting of the UN Human Rights Council was also held on Tuesday in Geneva , where commissioner Navi Pillay said atrocities against civilians were being committed . 
Syria 's representative to the UN , Faysal Khabbaz Hamoui , stormed out of the session , accusing countries of `` inciting sectarianism and providing arms '' . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Hague : British Embassy in Damascus ` suspended ' William Hague said talks with the main opposition group - the Syrian National Council - would continue Foreign Secretary William Hague has withdrawn all diplomatic staff from the British Embassy in Damascus in Syria and suspended its services . 
Mr Hague said the deteriorating security situation put staff in danger . 
The move comes as the UN rights council condemned `` systematic violations '' against civilians by the Syrian regime . 
Prime Minister David Cameron said the UK is taking steps to build a legal case against President Bashar al-Assad for violently suppressing protests . 
He said Britain is making sure that experts are available on the Turkish border and elsewhere to collect the evidence . 
`` There will be film evidence , there will be testimony , there will be individuals , there may well be information from the cameraman who recently escaped from Homs , '' he said . 
The British prime minister said the aim was to `` build a picture that can then make a case that these are crimes against humanity '' and that the Syrian president `` must be held to account '' . 
`` I wish we could do more but we have to be realistic about what we can achieve . 
But holding them to account , gathering the evidence , using that case to build a case in international law that he can never hide from - that we can do , '' said Mr Cameron . 
It comes after he said the international community was exerting maximum pressure on the regime . 
The population , particularly the wounded and sick , are bearing the brunt of the violence '' End Quote Marianne Gasser International Committee of the Red Cross Mr Cameron has said Britain must be realistic about its capacity to intervene directly , insisting the situation was different to Libya . 
Meanwhile , the British Red Cross has launched a `` crisis appeal '' , saying Syria urgently needs aid . 
Mr Hague revealed the decision to withdraw UK diplomats in a written statement laid before Parliament . 
He said the UK 's ambassador , Simon Collis , and other diplomatic staff left Syria on 29 February and would shortly be returning to the UK . 
He said : `` British nationals who remain in Syria despite our longstanding and consistent message to leave the country should contact the embassy of any remaining European Union member state if they require consular assistance . '' 
In the statement , Mr Hague said staff and premises were now judged to be at risk but that it `` in no way reduces the UK 's commitment to active diplomacy to maintain pressure on the Assad regime to end the violence '' . 
It is not known how many staff left the embassy on Wednesday . 
Mr Hague said the UK supported the UN and Arab League special envoy Kofi Annan and that the country would continue to work with main opposition group the Syrian National Council . 
The UK will continue to retain a dialogue with the Syrian embassy in London . 
The US closed its embassy in Syria and several European countries , including the UK , recalled their ambassadors last month . 
Mr Cameron told Channel Five news : `` We 've been pushing for resolutions at the United Nations , we 've been working with the Syrian opposition to try and encourage them be more inclusive . 
`` I think we have to keep up that pressure . 
But we do have to recognize ... there are big differences between the situation in Libya and the situation in Syria . 
The British embassy staff left their Damascus base on Wednesday `` I wish we could do more but we have to be realistic about what we can achieve about holding them to account . 
Gathering the evidence , using that evidence to build a case in international law that he can never hide from - that we can do . '' 
On Thursday , the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva condemned the Syrian government for violating the human rights of the country 's people . 
Its resolution , which was supported by 37 nations , called for the regime to allow access for aid agencies , and demanded an immediate halt to the violence . 
China , Russia and Cuba voted against the resolution . 
The British Red Cross has said that Syrian people urgently need food , medicine and other aid . 
In a statement , the charity said it had already given more than # 500,000 to support humanitarian work in the country since May last year but more needed to be done . 
The Syrian Arab Red Crescent and International Committee of the Red Cross -LRB- ICRC -RRB- have also been carrying out aid missions in the country . 
Marianne Gasser , head of the ICRC 's delegation in Syria , said : `` The population , particularly the wounded and sick , are bearing the brunt of the violence . '' 
The action comes as Syrian forces tightened their grip on Homs , a day after launching a ground assault on the Baba Amr district . 
Activists say more than 7,500 people have died since the uprising against Mr Assad 's government began last March . 
The government , however , says at least 1,345 members of the security forces have been killed combating `` armed gangs and terrorists '' , and puts the number of civilians killed at 2,493 . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria crisis : UN demands Valerie Amos let into country An activist in the Syrian city of Homs has said the Free Syrian Army has left the embattled district of Baba Amr The UN Security Council is demanding immediate access to Syria for its humanitarian chief , Valerie Amos . 
Russia and China , who vetoed two previous Security Council resolutions on Syria , are also backing the call for Baroness Amos to be allowed in . 
It comes as the rebel Free Syrian Army said it was withdrawing from the Baba Amr district of Homs , which has been under siege for nearly a month . 
France says two French journalists trapped in Homs are now safely out . 
France 's Sarkozy : `` I want to thank all those who 've contributed to this happy ending '' Reporter Edith Bouvier , 31 , and photojournalist William Daniels , 34 , are now in Lebanon , French President Nicolas Sarkozy told a news conference . 
Ms Bouvier was badly injured in the bombardment of a makeshift media center last week , in which two journalists were killed and another one wounded . 
`` I have just spoken to Edith Bouvier , who is naturally very tired , who has suffered a great deal , but who is happy to be free and will be treated soon , '' he said . 
`` I want to thank all those who contributed to this happy outcome . '' 
Earlier , the International Committee of the Red Cross -LRB- ICRC -RRB- said it and the Syrian Red Crescent had been given the green light to go to Baba Amr on Friday to deliver food and medical supplies . 
Jim Muir BBC News , Beirut The announcement in Paris by the Syrian National Council -LRB- SNC -RRB- that it is setting up a new `` military bureau '' to coordinate and funnel arms and support to the Free Syrian Army -LRB- FSA -RRB- has exposed a glaring rift in opposition ranks . 
SNC President Burhan Ghalioun , said that the commander of the FSA , Col Riyad al-Asaad , and Gen Mustafa al-Shaikh , who recently set up a `` Supreme Military Council '' , were on board the project . 
But Col Asaad told al-Jazeera that he had spoken to Mr Ghalioun the night before , that they had differed , and failed to reach agreement . 
He said the FSA had its own military strategy , did not want political interference , and would not coordinate with the SNC and its new military bureau . 
He had earlier criticised the SNC for failing to do anything practical to help people inside Syria . 
But with an Arab League resolution in January now providing political cover for countries like Saudi Arabia and Qatar which want to arm the opposition , it 's not clear why Col al-Asaad is rejecting the proffered largesse . 
While it is very hard to assess the true strength of the FSA and the level of popular support it enjoys inside Syria , it is frequently named in slogans chanted at anti-regime demonstrations , and many activist videos posted on the internet have shown military defectors declaring their allegiance to the FSA . 
In a statement , the council expressed its `` disappointment '' that Baroness Amos had not been granted authorisation to visit Syria . 
The council 's 15 member countries also said in a unanimously agreed statement that they `` deplore '' the deteriorating situation , `` in particular the growing number of affected civilians , the lack of safe access to adequate medical services , and food shortages , particularly in areas affected by fighting and violence such as Homs , Hama , Deraa , Idlib '' . 
`` The members of the Security Council call upon the Syrian authorities to allow immediate , full and unimpeded access of humanitarian personnel to all populations in need of assistance , in accordance with international law , '' the statement said . 
On Wednesday , Baroness Amos , who heads the UN Office for the Co-ordination of Humanitarian Affairs -LRB- UNOCHA -RRB- , said she had been refused permission by the Syrian authorities to enter the country . 
Russia and China vetoed earlier resolutions on Syria at the Security Council out of concern that they could lead to regime change . 
The UN estimates more than 7,500 people have died in an 11-month anti-government uprising in Syria . 
The Local Co-ordination Committees , a network of activists , says 33 people died on Thursday , including 21 in Homs . 
Their figures can not be verified independently . 
The ICRC and Syrian Red Crescent plan to bring bring food and medical supplies to Baba Amr on Friday , and will also evacuate those in need , ICRC spokeswoman Carla Haddad Mardini told the BBC . 
`` We fear there are many people who are seriously wounded , '' she said . 
`` We know the humanitarian situation on the ground is extremely worrying . '' 
How Syrian activists have become citizen journalists Earlier on Thursday the FSA , the main armed rebel group in the country , said it was making a `` tactical withdrawal '' from Baba Amr . 
It came after nearly a month of bombardment and the first stages of a ground offensive by Syrian government forces . 
Of the 100,000 people who normally live in Baba Amr , only a few thousand remain . 
The FSA said 4,000 civilians had refused to leave their homes and it was withdrawing to save them from an all-out assault . 
It has been snowing heavily in Homs , slowing the advance of ground troops which began their offensive on Tuesday , but also worsening conditions for civilians . 
Many of those still in Baba Amr are without power and running low on basic supplies . 
Meanwhile , the exile political opposition Syrian National Council -LRB- SNC -RRB- says it has formed a military bureau to co-ordinate the various armed anti-government groups . 
Announcing the creation of the new bureau , SNC leader Burhan Ghalioun said the uprising had begun as a non-violent movement , but the council had to `` shoulder its responsibilities in light of this new reality '' . 
Mr Ghalioun said the bureau would function like a defense ministry and would be staffed by soldiers from the FSA as well as civilians . 
However , the head of the FSA , Col Riyad al-Asaad , has said his organization will not co-operate with the new bureau , our correspondent says . 
Are you in Syria ? 
Send us your comments and experiences using the form below . 
Send your pictures and videos to yourpics@bbc.co.uk or text them to 61124 -LRB- UK -RRB- or +447624800100 -LRB- International -RRB- . 
If you have a large file you can upload here . 
If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on . 
In some cases a selection of your comments will be published , displaying your name as you provide it and location , unless you state otherwise . 
Your contact details will never be published . 
When sending us pictures , video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others , take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws . 
Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria crisis : Red Cross still seeking to enter Baba Amr Activists have said those remaining in Baba Amr face a humanitarian catastrophe The Red Cross is to try for a fourth consecutive day to get relief aid into the shattered Baba Amr district of the central Syrian city of Homs . 
After a siege and bombardment lasting nearly a month , security forces moved into the area on Thursday following the withdrawal of armed rebels . 
The government has since denied the Red Cross access , citing security concerns . 
There are reports of violence across the country , with activists saying at least 60 people were killed on Sunday . 
The Local Co-ordination Committees , a group that organises and documents protests , said 17 people died in Homs , including six who were allegedly summarily executed in a field on the edge of Baba Amr . 
Another 18 people were killed in the nearby city of Hama on Sunday , 12 in the suburbs of Damascus and five in the northern province of Idlib , it added . 
While the International Committee of the Red Cross -LRB- ICRC -RRB- and its Syrian Red Crescent partners have been waiting to enter Baba Amr , Syrian state television has been showing footage of a clean-up operation under way . 
What we 're being told is that the security situation prevents us going in , that it 's not safe for us to go in '' End Quote Sean Maguire International Committee of the Red Cross Workers were filmed starting to clear away the rubble left by weeks of heavy bombardment , which activists say left hundreds dead . 
State TV reporters said the area had been `` sanitised '' of `` armed terrorist groups '' . 
There is little information about the fate of up to 20,000 residents thought to have been in Baba Amr when the siege began on 4 February , but activists have said those remaining face a humanitarian catastrophe . 
Electricity , water and communications have been cut off , and in recent days temperatures have plummeted and snow has fallen . 
Food supplies are said to be dangerously low , and many people are too scared to venture out . 
With their convoys unable to enter Baba Amr since Friday , the Red Cross and Red Crescent have focused on distributing food , baby milk , blankets and hygiene products in neighbouring districts and villages where many people have sought refuge , including Inshaat , Tawzi and Abil . 
The ICRC said the needs in the three areas were `` considerable '' . 
`` We were actually able to start distributing assistance yesterday to people who have been displaced from Babr Amr so we were able to get in to a small village about 4km outside Homs , '' the organization 's spokesman in the UK , Sean Maguire , told the BBC . 
Ban Ki-moon : `` We continue to receive grisly reports of summary executions , arbitrary detentions and torture '' `` What we 're being told is that the security situation prevents us going in , that it 's not safe for us to go in , and that there are mines and booby traps . 
And we have no way of verifying that , '' he added . 
Activists have also accused security forces and pro-government militia of executing and torturing men and boys over the age of 14 in Baba Amr since Thursday . 
The claims could not be substantiated . 
The UN Refugee Agency -LRB- UNHCR -RRB- meanwhile said that between 1,000 and 2,000 Syrians from Homs were trying to reach the border with Lebanon . 
The UN estimates that 70,000 people have been displaced since the uprising against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad began in March , and that more than 20,000 have fled to Lebanon , Turkey and Jordan . 
Nearly 7,000 people are registered with the UNHCR in northern Lebanon . 
Activists are also reporting many other operations and killings by security forces in different parts of Syria - at Rastan just to the north of Homs , Qusair to the west , Idlib , and around the city of Deraa in the south . 
The international community is divided on how to handle the uprising in Syria The BBC 's Jim Muir in Beirut says the Syrian military seems to be pushing ahead with a determined campaign to crush any armed resistance wherever it is encountered ; and there is no obvious focus at the moment for diplomatic efforts to halt the carnage . 
Now that Vladimir Putin has won the Russian presidential election , some analysts in the region believe Moscow may take a tougher position with the Syrian government , which it has been protecting at the UN Security Council by vetoing two Western-backed resolutions , our correspondent adds . 
Russia 's foreign minister , Sergei Lavrov , is to meet Arab leaders in Cairo on Saturday . 
`` Considering the urgency of the Syria issue , when collective approaches for a settlement need to be found , we view this as a valuable and important format , '' Mr Lavrov said are meeting his Jordanian counterpart . 
The Chinese foreign ministry has issued a statement calling for an immediate ceasefire and dialogue between all parties . 
It will also send another envoy , former ambassador to Syria Li Huaqing , to Damascus . 
Both Russia and China have also backed international calls for humanitarian aid to be allowed in to Syria , but they also insist that must not be used as a pretext for external intervention . 
But the opposition , backed by the Arab League and the West , says it is too late and Mr Assad must go as the first step in a transition process . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Homs has suffered widespread devastation after weeks of bombardment Dozens of people have been killed in a suburb of Syria 's battle-scarred city of Homs , reports say , in what activists are describing as a `` new massacre '' . 
Forty-four of those killed came from just a handful of families , the Local Co-Ordination Committees -LRB- LCC -RRB- said . 
The reported killings come a day after the UN 's humanitarian chief visited Homs , saying parts had been devastated . 
Meanwhile a Syrian deputy oil minister posted a message on YouTube saying he had defected to the rebels . 
Abdo Hussameddin is the highest level political figure to abandon the government of President Bashar al-Assad since the uprising erupted a year ago . 
According to the LCC , the latest concentration of killings by security forces happened in the Jobar district of Homs . 
The group said 20 of the dead belonged to a single family , and 16 to another . 
It said the deaths were reprisal killings , coming days after security forces retook Homs from rebels , having pounded the city for weeks . 
The claims can not be verified as international media inside Syria are heavily restricted . 
After visiting Homs , one of the first cities to join the uprising last March , the UN humanitarian chief Baroness Valerie Amos said the bombed-out Baba Amr district felt like it had been closed down . 
`` The devastation there is significant , that part of Homs is completely destroyed and I am concerned to know what has happened to the people who live in that part of the city , '' Baroness Amos told Reuters news agency . 
Activists said troops committed massacres after they went in to the district , but Damascus blamed the rebels for many deaths . 
The BBC 's Jim Muir in neighbouring Lebanon says activist groups continue to report the summary execution of men from Baba Amr , the butchering of entire families , and the systematic mass rape of women . 
Our correspondent says opposition groups are urging Baroness Amos to go back and delve deeper . 
The UN says more than 7,500 people have died as a result of the violence in Syria over the past 12 months . 
Jon Leyne BBC News , Cairo This is potentially very significant . 
One of the key elements we have seen in Syria is that the regime itself - the inner core - has not cracked . 
If you look at what happened in Tunisia , in Egypt and in Libya , very quickly the regime broke apart and the leadership lost the support of key players . 
That has n't happened yet in Syria - this may be the first sign of it , or it may be just one isolated example . 
As the deputy minister intimated in his video , anybody trying to defect from that inner core faces enormous pressure . 
They fear their homes and families will be destroyed . 
In a YouTube message posted late on Wednesday , Mr Hussameddin , one of two deputy oil ministers , accused the government of `` barbarism '' . 
He read out a four-minute denunciation of the regime he said he had served for the past 33 years . 
`` I am joining the revolution of the people who reject injustice and the brutal campaign of the regime , '' he said . 
`` I tell the regime , which claims to own the country , you have nothing but the footprint of the tank driven by your barbarism to kill innocent people . '' 
He said he was stepping aside although he knew that his house would be burnt and his family persecuted by the regime . 
Worked initially as drilling engineer for state-owned Syrian Oil Company Rose to head various concerns in state oil and gas industry The Syrian government has not publicly commented on Mr Hussameddin 's announcement . 
Observers say public defections have been rare among civilian officials of the Syrian state , which is controlled by Mr Assad 's minority Alawite sect . 
However , there have been high-profile defections from the military , including Gen Mustapha al-Sheikh who fled to Turkey earlier this year . 
Also thousands of chiefly Sunni soldiers and conscripts are reported to have deserted since the start of the uprising . 
A spokeswoman from the opposition National Transitional Council of Syria said she believed many more cabinet members and their deputies were prepared to defect . 
In further diplomatic efforts to halt the violence , special envoy Kofi Annan is due to meet representatives of both sides in Damascus at the weekend . 
Speaking after talks in Cairo on Thursday , Mr Annan , joint envoy for the UN and Arab League , rejected military intervention in Syria . 
`` I hope no-one is thinking very seriously of using force in this situation . 
I believe further militarisation will make the situation worse , '' he said after meeting Arab League Secretary General Nabil al-Arabi . 
Separately , Beijing announced on Thursday that its envoy had talks in Syria this week with representatives of the government and the opposition . 
China 's foreign ministry said envoy Li Huaxin met Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Muallem and his deputy during a two-day visit . 
Observers say Mr Li 's visit is Beijing 's latest attempt to counter charges by Western and Arab leaders that by vetoing two previous UN resolutions , China and Russia have aided the growing violence by Syrian government forces . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


The BBC 's Lina Sinjab in Damascus : '' Syria 's words are on one level and their actions are on another level completely '' Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has told visiting UN-Arab League envoy Kofi Annan that no political dialogue can succeed in his country while `` armed terrorist groups '' are operating . 
Mr Assad said Syria would back `` any honest effort to find a solution '' . 
The UN said Mr Annan 's task was to call for an immediate ceasefire by the army and the opposition . 
Fighting on Saturday left 63 people dead , activists say , in a report which could not be verified independently . 
Most of the deaths reported by the Local Coordination Committees -LRB- LCC -RRB- were in the Idlib area of the north-west , where the army was said to be shelling the city of the same name . 
The UN says more than 7,500 people have died since the violence began nearly a year ago . 
Earlier , UN humanitarian chief Valerie Amos said `` limited progress '' had been made on aid but much more was needed . 
Calls for reform that began with pro-democracy protests a year ago have degenerated into violence that has brought Syria to the brink of civil war . 
Mr Annan 's talks with Mr Assad lasted for more than two hours , after which Mr Annan met Foreign Minister Walid al-Moallem over lunch . 
The meetings were held in a `` positive '' atmosphere , Syrian state television said . 
Mr Assad said : `` Syria is ready to make a success of any honest effort to find a solution for the events it is witnessing . 
`` No political dialogue or political activity can succeed while there are armed terrorist groups operating and spreading chaos and instability . '' 
The BBC 's Lina Sinjab in Damascus says this is a clear message that the military operation , and violence , will continue . 
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , another activists ' group , said the shelling of Idlib was the heaviest since army reinforcements arrived earlier in the week . 
The Observatory said the bombardment was an apparent prelude to a ground assault , as happened in the city of Homs . 
One activist in Idlib told Reuters news agency by telephone that government tanks were entering the city . 
The Associated Press news agency reported families fleeing the violence with their belongings . 
UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said earlier he had asked Mr Annan to pursue an immediate ceasefire in Syria . 
If a ceasefire could not be agreed simultaneously , then government troops should stop first , followed by the opposition , he argued . 
Mr Annan , who is due to meet Mr Assad again on Sunday , is expected to also seek talks with opposition figures before he leaves . 
Coinciding with Mr Annan 's arrival , a meeting of Arab League foreign ministers has been taking place in Cairo , attended by Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov . 
The BBC 's Jon Leyne in Cairo says the meeting has revealed bitter divisions between the League and Moscow , with Russia finding out just how little support its policy on Syria has . 
Mr Lavrov warned against `` crude interference '' in Syria 's internal affairs , insisting that Russia was not `` protecting any regimes . 
The Qatari delegation said it was time to send Arab and international forces in to Syria , as there was a `` moral and humanitarian obligation to stop the daily systematic killing there '' . 
Nevertheless , a final joint statement set out several points of agreement , including the rejection of foreign intervention in the conflict-stricken country . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 
10th March 2012 - 11:19 In ten years we 'll be looking back at this in shame for not acting . 
It might not be perfect in Libya , but the results of not acting could be far , far worse . 
I would rather we intervene and see some chaos , than see thousands of deaths , ethnic cleansing , and decades of retribution by the regime . 
I wish Annan well , but the outside world seems incapable of doing anything without endless bureaucracy . 
10th March 2012 - 10:53 Would like to wish Kofi Annan all the best , but does anyone REALLY believe this can all end well ? 
Asad has too much to lose and wo n't give anything up easily 10th March 2012 - 10:44 I wish Mr Annan well and hope he can arrange a ceasefire . 
He needs to be able to meet the opposition leaders in Syria and not just those outside the country . 
Unfortunately I do n't hold out much hope . 
Looks like the media have decided it 's going to be another regime change . 
10th March 2012 - 10:33 I cant help feeling Kofi Annan would be more effective trying to convince China and Russia to agree with the UN on a suitable response to this crisis ... unless he has already tried behind the scenes , failed and is now trying to tackle the problem at source ! 
10th March 2012 - 10:14 I wish Mr Annan well but ultimately nothing will come of it . 
The Arab league should have dealt with this months ago , but they won t because if it all goes pear shaped they would have no-one to blame . 
The UN could go in , but they won t be thanked for it ; In fact it would only be a matter of time before the activist turn on them . 
All posts are reactively-moderated and must obey the house rules . 


Kofi Annan wants a ceasefire and greater access for humanitarian aid As the special UN-Arab League envoy Kofi Annan embarked on what looked like a Mission Impossible that was unlikely to produce swift results , the way ahead in Syria was shrouded in the smoke of war . 
But amidst the many confusions and complexities , there were a few elements that could be taken as givens unless something changes dramatically . 
President Bashar al-Assad and his associates will continue the campaign they launched in late January to crush all armed resistance and secure the country 's borders against the infiltration of fighters , guns and money . 
Accepting a ceasefire that fell short of that , would not only put on a level footing what the regime regards as armed terrorists implementing a foreign plot , but would also risk seeing large tracts of the country slipping permanently out of its control . 
For the same reasons , any access for humanitarian aid will have to happen in co-ordination with the Syrian authorities . 
Damascus would see the establishment of cross-border aid corridors giving independent and unrestricted access to trouble spots as an unacceptable infringement of its sovereignty . 
In these key positions , the regime seems to enjoy solid and crucial support from both Russia and China . 
So there will be no immediate ceasefire , nor will blanket permission be given for aid deliveries outside regime control . 
All that is quite apart from the positions adopted by most of the Syrian opposition , which also make an early peaceful solution look unlikely . 
Most groups refuse to consider talking to the regime - or at least President Assad - because so much blood has been spilled in ruthless repression that continues on the ground . 
Most activists simply want the downfall of the regime , not some compromise that would allow it to survive in a perhaps only slightly mutated form . 
They would see negotiations now as being from a position of weakness , especially given the regime 's aggressive reassertion of military control since late January . 
Mr Annan also finds himself in the anomalous position of representing an Arab League which has thrown its weight behind regime change too . 
The League 's 22 January resolution , which triggered the regime 's crackdown , drops all mention of dialogue with Damascus , prescribes a menu for political change starting with President Assad handing power immediately to his deputy , and gives political cover for Arab states to provide military and other support to the opposition . 
Most opposition activists simply want the downfall of the regime , not a compromise That formula worked in Yemen . 
But Syria is not Yemen . 
The Arab League position is also supported by most of the Western powers and their allies . 
That is sharply at odds with the balanced positions adopted by Kofi Annan himself , who insists that any political solution must involve dialogue with all the `` actors '' on the ground , necessarily including the regime . 
He is against arming the opposition or any form of outside military intervention , arguing that they will complicate an already drastic situation . 
On paper at least , that actually puts him closer to the Russian and Chinese positions than to those of the Western powers . 
He will have to draw on all his considerable skills and experience if he is to find common ground between these polarised stands . 
Clearly , that is going to take time , if it is indeed attainable . 
If Mr Annan is to stand a chance of producing a peaceful political solution , he would have to persuade the Saudis , Qataris and other key players in the Arab League , and indeed the West , that pushing for regime change is going to plunge Syria and the region into deeper chaos . 
The West , also set on regime change , finds itself casting around with few valid options for bringing that about swiftly and surely . 
Nato and its member powers have from the outset ruled out external military intervention as in Libya , and they continue to do so for a wide variety of compelling reasons - despite the hopes of many Syrian opposition groups that they can somehow be drawn in . 
Qatar 's Prime Minister has been pushing for Arab military intervention in Syria The West is also wary of pouring arms into the opposition , for fear of fuelling a sectarian civil war in which Sunni Islamist radicals could come to the fore - especially since al-Qaeda has begun urging jihadis to join the fray , raising anxieties on which the regime has skilfully played . 
The Western powers ' strategy of economic and political sanctions has helped isolate and pressure the regime . 
It is certainly feeling the pinch , as the value of the Syrian pound plummets , cash flows dry up , and industry and tourism grind to a halt . 
But as Iraq showed , such pressures can continue for years without necessarily bringing about the desired result . 
The Syrian opposition , still badly fragmented both politically and militarily , also finds itself in a bind . 
After months of ruthless repression , and the years that preceded it , taking up arms is a natural development , and one which has inflicted a cost on the regime . 
But it is also playing the regime at its own game and engaging in a confrontation which the rebels could only hope to win decisively with the kind of outside intervention that tilted the balance so abruptly against Col Muammar Gaddafi in Libya . 
Imagine what the situation might be there now , had Nato not intervened , and that might give some idea of what may lie ahead in Syria . 
If Kofi Annan can not induce major shifts in position on the part of many of the key players in this bloody and convoluted drama , the most likely scenario will be this : The regime will complete its crushing of armed resistance wherever it finds it , with much of the immediate focus shifting north-westwards to Idlib province and the borderlands with Turkey . 
But it will continue to face a low-level insurgency as well as civil protest in many -LRB- mainly Sunni -RRB- areas , where it has clearly lost the hearts and minds of the people . 
Some neighbors , especially Turkey , may become increasingly permissive in terms of allowing the cross-border fuelling of insurgents . 
And some Arab states , notably the Saudis and Qataris , may become more assertive and open in arming and financing the rebels , while the Western powers continue their efforts to unify the opposition and provide its military wing with non-lethal assistance . 
This route could still lead to a collapse of the regime as its fabric slowly unravels , with accelerated military defections , the gradual spread of dissent and the worsening of economic and social conditions . 
But , while there could be surprises , it risks being a long and brutal process which might tear the country apart at the seams - along fault-lines which run through the wider region . 
It has in it the already apparent seeds both of a Syrian sectarian civil war and of the kind of regional and international proxy conflict which consumed neighbouring Lebanon for decades and which is still latent there . 
The regime may ultimately be doomed , but the fact is that it retains some bedrock support not only among the party faithful but also among sections of society fearful of a plunge into the unknown . 
It maintains an iron grip which has so far prevented military units defecting en masse , and it has shown every sign of determination to fight to the bitter end even if that means bringing the house down around it . 
Given everything that has happened , few of the regime 's domestic or external adversaries believe that the inner circle of power is genuinely prepared to envisage a graceful transition to real democracy , either through negotiations or through the regime 's own reform process that should see multi-party general elections in May . 
That , and all the blood , is why most of the opposition reject dialogue and regard mediation with the regime as simply buying it more time . 
Kofi Annan has already won one Nobel Peace Prize . 
If he can conjure a peaceful solution out of the elements he is working with now , he will surely deserve another . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Heavy shelling is reported in the northern Syrian town of Idlib In talks on Saturday , Mr Assad rejected political dialogue while `` armed terrorist groups '' operated in Syria . 
Mr Annan is trying to arrange a ceasefire and gain greater access for humanitarian aid agencies . 
But many in the opposition will be sceptical that the Syrian leader will take any notice , the BBC 's Jon Donnison reports from neighbouring Lebanon . 
Activists say troops are continuing an assault on the north-western city of Idlib where Free Syrian Army fighters are holed up . 
The rebel fighters are vastly outgunned and fear a massive prolonged assault similar to that which took place in the city of Homs . 
Speaking to reporters after his meeting with the Syrian president , Mr Annan said he had presented proposals which , if agreed , `` will help launch the process and help end the crisis on the ground '' . 
`` Our discussions focused on the core objectives of this process , the immediate stop to the violence and the killing , access for humanitarian agencies and the start of a political dialogue , '' he said . 
Kofi Annan : `` I told the president that my main preoccupation is the welfare of the Syrian people '' He said he had urged Mr Assad to embrace change and reform . 
The Ghanaian diplomat , one of the world 's most seasoned negotiators , said he had told the president an old African proverb : `` You ca n't turn the wind , so turn the sail . '' 
`` It 's going to be tough , '' he said . 
`` It 's going to be difficult but we have to have hope . '' 
He said he was `` optimistic for several reasons '' . 
`` First of all , I 've been here for a very short period , almost every Syrian I 've met wants peace . 
They want the violence to stop ; they want to move on with their lives , '' he went on . 
But few are hopeful that his mission will bring a swift end to the bloodshed . 
Dr Bassma Kodmani , of the opposition Syrian National Council , told the BBC that Mr Assad must stand down as a `` first condition '' of any negotiations between the government and opposition figures . 
Jim Muir BBC News , Beirut If Mr Annan is to stand a chance of producing a peaceful political solution , he would have to persuade the Saudis , Qataris and other key players in the Arab League , and indeed the West , that pushing for regime change is going to plunge Syria and the region into deeper chaos . 
The West , also set on regime change , finds itself casting around with few valid options for bringing that about swiftly and surely . 
Nato and its member powers have from the outset ruled out external military intervention as in Libya , and they continue to do so for a wide variety of compelling reasons - despite the hopes of many Syrian opposition groups that they can somehow be drawn in . 
The West is also wary of pouring arms into the opposition , for fear of fuelling a sectarian civil war in which Sunni Islamist radicals could come to the fore - especially since al-Qaeda has begun urging jihadis to join the fray , raising anxieties on which the regime has skilfully played . 
For his part , Mr Assad told Mr Annan during their first round of talks on Saturday : `` No political dialogue or political activity can succeed while there are armed terrorist groups operating and spreading chaos and instability . '' 
Mr Annan has flown on to Qatar and will visit Turkey on Monday . 
Both countries have taken a tough line against President Assad 's crackdown . 
Syrian troops are trying to crush an increasingly armed rebellion that sprang from a harsh crackdown on peaceful pro-democracy protests . 
The UN says more than 7,500 people have died since unrest began a year ago . 
UK-based activist group the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said 58 people had been killed in clashes across Syria on Sunday . 
The Observatory said 17 civilians and 12 rebels had died in a string of incidents in Idlib province . 
Tight restrictions on independent journalists inside Syria mean the figures can not be verified . 
Also on Sunday , gunmen in the north-western city of Aleppo killed former national boxing champion Ghiath Tayfour , Syria 's state news agency Sana reported . 
It said an `` armed group '' opened fire on the boxer as he drove past Aleppo University . 
It was not clear what the motive for his killing might have been . 
International disagreements have paralysed action on Syria , with Russia and China opposing Western and Arab calls for President Assad to stand down . 
The US has drafted a fresh UN Security Council resolution but the state department said on Friday it was not optimistic that the text would be accepted . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria crisis : US and UN urge Security Council unity Hillary Clinton said no country should hesitate to condemn the violence in Syria Hillary Clinton said that Syria 's `` horrific campaign of violence '' had `` shocked the conscience of the world '' . 
Russia and China have blocked resolutions condemning Syrian President Bashar al-Assad . 
In Syria , activists report that at least 47 people were killed in an attack by government militia in Homs . 
Women and children are among those reported to have been tortured and killed on Sunday night in the neighborhood of Karm el-Zeytoun . 
The Syrian government acknowledged the deaths , but blamed `` armed terrorists '' . 
Ms Clinton told the UN Security Council meeting in New York : `` We believe that now is the time for all nations - even those who have previously blocked our efforts - to stand behind the humanitarian and political approach spelled out by the Arab League . '' 
In a clear reference to China and Russia , she appealed to the international community to `` say with one voice - without hesitation or caveat - that the killing of innocent Syrians must stop and a political transition must begin '' . 
Her words echoed those of British Foreign Secretary William Hague , and of Mr Ban who said the Syrian government had `` failed to fulfil its responsibility to protect its own people and instead has subjected its citizens in several cities to military assault and disproportionate use of force '' . 
He said the Council must `` unite strongly '' behind UN and Arab League peace envoy Kofi Annan 's efforts `` to help Syria pull back from the brink of a deeper catastrophe '' . 
UK Foreign Secretary William Hague : ` The UN has failed on Syria ' Russia 's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said the situation in Syria remained a `` grave concern '' but warned that change in the Arab world `` must not be achieved by misleading the international community or manipulating the Security Council '' . 
After the meeting , he said the Russian government was in regular contact with Syrian authorities and dismissed suggestions that Russia 's opposition to any resolution was single-handedly preventing a solution to the crisis . 
`` The founding fathers of the UN decided that unless the permanent members agreed on something , decisions could not be sustainable . 
Let 's try to be respectful of each other and each other 's positions , '' he said . 
But UK Foreign Minister William Hague struck a more positive note . 
`` I think it is encouraging that the foreign minister of Russia and the Arab League had a discussion and the need for a political process has been recognized by Foreign Minister Lavrov , something we and many Arab ministers have called for all along , '' he said . 
The attack in the embattled city of Homs happened hours after Mr Annan ended his two-day mission to Damascus . 
Homs has been under assault for weeks as government forces have tried to root out rebel fighters . 
Parts of the city are devastated . 
Hundreds of families fled the Karm el-Zeytoun area of Homs on Monday after reports of the attack in their neighborhood overnight , the British-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said . 
One activist in Homs , Hadi Abdallah , told AFP the bodies of 26 children and 21 women were found , some with their throats slit and others bearing stab wounds . 
Both the opposition Syrian Revolution General Commission -LRB- SRGC -RRB- and the Local Co-ordination Committees -LRB- LCC -RRB- , an activist network in Syria , put the toll at 45 . 
The SRGC said that some of the victims had been burned alive with heating fuel poured over them and others had their necks and limbs broken . 
Mulham al-Jundi , an opposition activist and member of the SNC , said Karm el-Zeytoun was experiencing a military bombardment similar to the one seen in Baba Amr district in recent weeks . 
The BBC 's Jon Donnison : ` The Syrian government has acknowledged these deaths ' Reports are difficult to verify because of tight restrictions on independent media operating in Syria . 
Footage posted on YouTube , said to show the bodies of men , women and children killed in the attack , made for grim viewing , said the BBC 's Jon Donnison in neighbouring Lebanon . 
In one video , at least 11 bodies can be seen , including at least four young children covered in blood , he adds . 
Syrian state television accused `` armed terrorist gangs '' of carrying out the killings , saying the bodies had been filmed in an effort to discredit the government . 
Both the LCC and the Observatory blame the pro-government Shabiha militia for the attack . 
The group has been blamed for many of the atrocities carried out since the uprising began nearly a year ago . 
Kofi Annan left Syria on Sunday after two days of talks with President Assad , saying he was `` optimistic '' about the possibility of a ceasefire , humanitarian access to affected areas and future political dialogue . 
He said he had presented Mr Assad with `` concrete proposals '' to bring an end to the bloodshed , but gave no hint that a deal was imminent . 
Reports say Mr Annan is due to meet representatives of the opposition Syrian National Council in the Turkish city of Istanbul on Tuesday . 
Are you in Syria ? 
Do you have friends or family in the region ? 
Send us your comments and experiences using the form below . 
If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on . 
In some cases a selection of your comments will be published , displaying your name as you provide it and location , unless you state otherwise . 
Your contact details will never be published . 
When sending us pictures , video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others , take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws . 
Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria laying landmines along border : Human Rights Watch Hundreds of refugees a day are arriving in Turkey and Lebanon from Syria The New York-based group quoted accounts from witnesses and deminers . 
UN-Arab League envoy Kofi Annan is in Turkey and has met Syrian opposition figures during his peace mission . 
He says he expects Damascus to reply on Tuesday to his proposals on the crisis . 
Meanwhile , the UN says 230,000 Syrians have fled their homes in the past year . 
The UN High Commissioner for Refugees says 30,000 have fled abroad while 200,000 are displaced within Syria . 
The UN says more than 8,000 people - many of them women and children - have been killed since the anti-government protests erupted . 
Human Rights Watch -LRB- HRW -RRB- called on Syria to immediately cease laying landmines , calling them `` military ineffective '' weapons that will kill and injure mostly civilians for years to come . 
The group said it had been told by a 28-year-old former Syrian Army deminer that he and a group of friends removed around 300 mines from the Hasanieih area in early March , along routes used by refugees to reach Turkey . 
A 15-year-old boy described losing a leg to a landmine after trying to help a friend of a family , wounded in the government assault on the Baba Amr district of Homs , to cross the border into Lebanon . 
Jonathan Head BBC News , Hatay , Turkey-Syria border Around 100 to 200 people a day are crossing the border , bringing with them harrowing stories of their escape . 
The Syrian army has been besieging the city of Idlib , not far across the border from here , for the last three days . 
They are also moving from village to village , pretty much destroying each one and forcing the people there to flee . 
The numbers of refugees would probably be higher if it was n't so difficult to get across the border , because of the minefields and numbers of Syrian soldiers in the area . 
We have seen people who have lost their limbs because of the mines . 
The refugee camps here are well run , but have become very crowded . 
Some people have been here for 10 months now . 
The Turkish authorities are having to make plans for a much bigger influx of refugees . 
`` I was less than 50-60m -LRB- 165-195ft -RRB- away from crossing the border when the landmine exploded , '' he said , adding that the friend died . 
`` Any use of anti-personnel landmines is unconscionable , '' Steve Goose , Arms Division director at HRW , said . 
`` There is absolutely no justification for the use of these indiscriminate weapons by any country , anywhere , for any purpose . '' 
Syria - which is not among the 159 nations signed up to the 1997 Ottawa Treaty banning the production , use and stockpiling of anti-personnel mines - has not publicly commented on the claims . 
The size and origin of Syria 's stockpile of landmines is not clear , HRW said , but is thought to consist mostly of Russian-made weapons - some Soviet-era - such as PMN-2 anti-personnel mines and TMN-46 anti-vehicle mines . 
Reports that Syrian troops were laying landmines first emerged last November , when a government official told the Associated Press news agency : `` Syria has undertaken many measures to control the borders , including planting mines . '' 
The BBC 's Jonathan Head , reporting from Hatay on the Turkish side of the border with Syria , says he has seen refugees arrive who have lost limbs because of the mines . 
He says the refugee camp at Hatay , run by the Turkish Red Crescent , is receiving up to 200 refugees a day as they flee the army assault on the city of Idlib and surrounding villages just across the border in Syria . 
Kofi Annan , the former UN chief who has been appointed by the UN and Arab League to find a peaceful solution to the crisis in Syria , had what he called a `` useful meeting '' with the opposition Syrian National Council -LRB- SNC -RRB- . 
UK Foreign Secretary William Hague : ` The UN has failed on Syria ' He said they `` promised their full co-operation , which will be necessary if we are going to succeed '' . 
Mr Annan , who is on the second day of his visit to Turkey , said he expected a response from Damascus later on Tuesday to `` concrete proposals '' he put forward during his meeting in Syria with President Bashar al-Assad . 
`` Once I receive their answer we will know how to react , '' he added . 
Mr Annan has said his peace mission has three objectives ; to bring about a ceasefire , provide access for humanitarian aid and start political dialogue . 
But he admitted on Monday , after talks with Turkey 's Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Ankara , that the diplomatic process would take time and described the situation in Syria as `` very complex '' . 
On Monday , UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon and US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton urged the international community to speak with one voice on Syria . 
Mrs Clinton told the UN Security Council that Syria 's `` horrific campaign of violence '' had `` shocked the conscience of the world '' . 
`` We believe that now is the time for all nations - even those who have previously blocked our efforts - to stand behind the humanitarian and political approach spelled out by the Arab League . '' 
Russia and China have blocked resolutions condemning Mr Assad . 
Russia 's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said the situation in Syria remained a `` grave concern '' but warned that change in the Arab world `` must not be achieved by misleading the international community or manipulating the Security Council '' . 
Are you in Syria ? 
Do you have friends or family in the region ? 
Send us your comments and experiences using the form below . 
At no time should you endanger yourself or others or take any unnecessary risks . 
If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on . 
In some cases a selection of your comments will be published , displaying your name as you provide it and location , unless you state otherwise . 
Your contact details will never be published . 
When sending us pictures , video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others , take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws . 
Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Key events in Syria uprising , one year on A coalition of 200 aid and rights groups has called on Russia and China to support United Nations ' attempts to end the violence in Syria . 
Their appeal marks one year since the first protests against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad . 
Syrians had survived the crackdown with `` outstanding courage '' , the group said , but more than 8,000 had died . 
The UN says it will send a humanitarian mission to Syria this weekend to assess the situation . 
Its representatives will be part of a delegation led by the Syrian government . 
They will also be accompanied by staff from the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation . 
They will visit a number of towns including Homs , Hama and Deraa to gather information and see living conditions for themselves . 
In a statement , UN humanitarian chief Valerie Amos stressed the importance of `` unhindered access to identify urgent needs and provide emergency care and basic supplies '' . 
`` There is no time to waste , '' she said . 
The BBC 's Jonathan Head says thousands of Syrian refugees are arriving in Hatay in Turkey At the political level , Russia and China have both blocked UN Security Council resolutions on Syria . 
They have objected to international action which they say would bring about a forced regime change in Syria . 
On Wednesday , the Syrian authorities began shelling the southern city of Deraa - the birthplace of the protests - after retaking Idlib , on the Turkish border in the north-west , earlier this week . 
Turkey says it has seen a sharp increase in the flow of refugees across its border in recent days . 
`` The number of Syrian refugees currently staying in Turkey boomed by 1,000 in a single day and climbed to 14,700 total , '' foreign ministry spokesperson Selcuk Unal told reporters in Ankara , adding that he expected the numbers to continue rising . 
Fergal Keane reports on how Syria 's violence is affecting the country 's children . 
Some may find his report distressing . 
Among the latest group was a general who had defected from the army , joining the six already in Turkey , said Mr Unal . 
Meanwhile , thousands of people have joined a pro-government rally in the Syrian capital , Damascus , to denounce the `` year-old conspiracy '' against the regime . 
Mr Assad has always insisted his troops are fighting `` armed gangs '' who are seeking to destabilise Syria . 
In a statement , the 200 aid groups from 27 countries - including Human Rights Watch , Christian Aid , Cairo Institute for Human Rights Studies , Civicus and International Federation of Human Rights - called on the Security Council to unite in passing a resolution condemning the Syrian government 's use of violence , torture and arbitrary detention against civilians . 
`` For a full year , the death toll in Syria has escalated to the horrifying total of more than 8,000 dead , including hundreds of children , '' said Ziad Abdel Tawab , deputy director of the Cairo Institute for Human Rights . 
`` Is n't it time for the world to unite behind effective steps to stop this now ? '' 
Souher Belhassen , president of the International Federation for Human Rights -LRB- FIDH -RRB- , said Syrians had `` survived with outstanding courage one year of systematic and widespread crimes and bloodshed as the world stood by and watched '' . 
`` The international community must unite and help Syrians bring an end to the horror . '' 
The BBC 's Jon Donnison says video purporting to show security forces looting homes has emerged They said the international community must give its full support to Kofi Annan , the former UN secretary general who is acting as the UN and Arab League 's envoy to Syria . 
Mr Annan visited Syria last week to deliver a proposed peace plan to Mr Assad , and is to brief the UN Security Council on his mission on Friday . 
The plan includes demands for an immediate ceasefire by both sides , access for humanitarian aid , and the beginning of political dialogue . 
A spokesman said he had received a response from Mr Assad but had questions about it and `` and was seeking answers '' . 
Syrian foreign ministry spokesman Jihad al-Maqdisi told the BBC that Mr Assad 's response had been positive because he wanted Mr Annan 's mission to succeed . 
Bahrain added further pressure , announcing on Thursday it was closing its embassy in Damascus and withdrawing all staff from Syria because of deteriorating conditions . 
A number of countries , including the US , UK , Saudi Arabia , Netherlands and Italy have already closed or suspended their embassies . 
The UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said at least 20 people , including seven army defectors , were killed on Wednesday as the government began shelling Deraa . 
A day before , opposition activists said government forces had taken control of the north-western city of Idlib , after days of clashes with rebel fighters . 
Security forces were reportedly carrying out house-to-house searches in the area , which has been a stronghold of the Free Syrian Army -LRB- FSA -RRB- , the main armed rebel group . 
Tom Porteous of Human Rights Watch said there were reports that 114 people had died in the Idlib in the past four days . 
Footage showing the scale of protests in Syria started emerging in March last year Reports are difficult to verify because of tight restrictions on independent media operating in Syria . 
The violence comes two weeks after troops backed by tanks entered the shattered Baba Amr district of Homs , which had been under bombardment for almost a month , leaving an estimated 700 people dead . 
French foreign minister Alain Juppe insisted that the answer to crisis was not to arm the opposition . 
`` If we give arms to a certain faction of the Syrian opposition , we will create the conditions for a civil war ... and that could become an even bigger catastrophe than we have now , '' he said . 
The first protest in Syria took place on the streets of Damascus , on 15 March 2011 , amid the wave of political unrest across the Middle East and North Africa . 
A few days later , there were clashes in Deraa , as crowds protested against the arrest and alleged torture of a group of schoolchildren who had written anti-government slogans on a wall . 
The army was called into Deraa to restore order by the end of the month , but the unrest had already spread to towns and cities across the country . 
As the army began firing on civilians , the initial calls for more political freedom escalated into calls for the removal of Mr Assad and his government . 
The Syrian government has been trying to suppress an uprising inspired by events in Tunisia , Egypt and Libya . 
The UN says thousands have been killed in the crackdown , and that many more have been detained and displaced . 
The Syrian government says hundreds of security forces personnel have also died combating `` armed terrorist gangs '' . 
The family of President Bashar al-Assad has been in power since his father , Hafez , took over in a coup in 1970 . 
The country underwent some liberalisation after Bashar became president in 2000 , but the pace of change soon slowed , if not reversed . 
Critics are imprisoned , domestic media are tightly controlled , and economic policies often benefit the elite . 
The country 's human rights record is among the worst in the world . 
Syria is a country of 21 million people with a Sunni Muslim majority -LRB- 74 % -RRB- and significant minorities of Alawites - the Shia heterodox sect to which Mr Assad belongs - and Christians . 
Mr Assad promotes a secular identity for the country , but he has concentrated power in the hands of family and other Alawites . 
Protests have generally been biggest in Sunni-dominated areas . 
Under the sanctions imposed by the Arab League , US and EU , Syria 's two most vital sectors , tourism and oil , have ground to a halt in recent months . 
The IMF says Syria 's economy contracted by 2 % in 2011 , while the value of the Syrian pound has crashed . 
Unemployment is high , electricity cuts trouble Damascus , and critical products like heating oil and staples like milk powder are becoming scarce . 
Pro-democracy protests erupted in March 2011 after the arrest and torture of a group of teenagers who had painted revolutionary slogans on walls at their school in the southern city of Deraa . 
Security forces opened fire during a march against the arrests , killing four . 
The next day , the authorities shot at mourners at the victims ' funerals , killing another person . 
People began demanding the overthrow of Mr Assad . 
The government has tried to deal with the situation with a combination of minor concessions and force . 
President Assad ended the 48-year-long state of emergency and introduced a new constitution offering multi-party elections . 
But at the same time , the authorities have continued to use violence against unarmed protesters , and some cities , like Homs , have suffered weeks of intense bombardment . 
The opposition is deeply divided . 
Several groups formed a coalition , the Syrian National Council -LRB- SNC -RRB- , but it is dominated by the Sunni community and exiled dissidents . 
The SNC disagrees with the National Co-ordination Committee -LRB- NCC -RRB- on the questions of talks with the government and foreign intervention , and has found it difficult to work with the Free Syrian Army - army defectors seeking to topple Mr Assad by force . 
International pressure on the Syrian government has been intensifying . 
It has been suspended from the Arab League , while the EU and the US have imposed sanctions . 
However , there has been no agreement on a UN Security Council resolution calling for an end to violence . 
Although military intervention has been ruled out by Western nations , there are increasing calls to arm the opposition . 
Correspondents say a peaceful solution seems unlikely . 
Syria 's leadership seems intent on crushing resistance and most of the opposition will only accept an end to the regime . 
Some believe the expected collapse of Syria 's currency and an inability to pay salaries may be the leadership 's downfall . 
There are fears , though , that the resulting chaos would be long-lasting and create a wider conflict . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


By Lina Sinjab BBC News , Damascus Thousands are still taking to the streets on a daily basis to call for freedom Nadine and George , whose names have been changed , are working on secret plans for civil disobedience against Bashar al-Assad . 
They are part of a peaceful movement for change that has been lobbying against the Syrian president for a year . 
They have so far dyed the water red in public fountains across Damascus , which they say represents the blood lost during the uprising . 
They have also set up speakers in central squares to broadcast revolutionary songs , distributed flyers to encourage people to protest against the government , and shone lasers from top of Mount Qassioun , which overlooks the capital , calling for `` freedom '' . 
But as the uprising enters its second year and the number of dead women and children increases , Nadine and George are having second thoughts . 
When I see this , how can I preach people not to take up arms - they have a right to defend themselves '' End Quote George Opposition activist `` We were going to throw eggs on pictures of the president tonight , but what would that help with all this blood ? '' 
Nadine asks , looking at the latest pictures on the television of children massacred in Homs . 
`` When I see this , how can I preach people not to take up arms - they have a right to defend themselves , '' George adds . 
They both look desperate - many activists in Syria are beginning to feel that the peaceful movement for change has reached an impasse . 
Thousands of protesters are still taking to the streets on a daily basis to call for freedom , but the more violent the crackdown by security forces becomes the more opposition supporters are advocating armed resistance . 
There are hardly any tourists in Syria . 
At first sight , foreign visitors to Damascus would not feel much is different from last March . 
There have , however , been dramatic changes . 
Images of the crackdown on dissent in Syria have caused outrage worldwide during the past year The capital 's streets are busy during the day , with people going to work and carrying out errands . 
But the evenings are far quieter than usual and you can feel the tension everywhere . 
Although there are daily protests in various districts and suburbs of Damascus , the regime is still very much in control . 
Public pictures of President Assad are more widespread than they were a year ago , as a result of a series of `` We love you '' campaigns run by his supporters . 
Pictures of the violence and torture perpetrated by his government 's forces are meanwhile circulated over coffee inside people 's sitting rooms or around dinner tables . 
The debate is always heated ; a political solution is needed . 
This is the line that many here in Syria agree on , but how to proceed ? 
Sitting at his desk , smoking a cigarette and mobile phone constantly ringing , Louai Hussein is the head of a new movement , Building the Syrian State . 
Louai Hussein holds the government responsible for what is happening in Syria He says the only way forward is a political solution and dialogue with the government on a peaceful transition of power . 
`` But the violence must stop first , '' Mr Hussein says . 
Although he holds the government responsible for what is happening in Syria , Mr Hussein fears arming the revolution will create more chaos . 
The special envoy of the United Nations and Arab League , Kofi Annan , visited Damascus over the weekend and presented President Assad a peace initiative . 
Mr Assad says a political solution will never succeed while `` terrorists groups '' are operating in the country , but Mr Hussein believes the former UN secretary general can find a solution . 
`` Mediation is the only way out . 
All parties should be involved in a political solution . '' 
Taking up arms will be a dead end for the revolutionaries '' End Quote Bassam Youssef Secretary General , Together for Syria The rest of the opposition is split over whether to take up arms . 
Many protesters - particularly in towns and cities which have borne the brunt of the crackdown on dissent - want the international community to support the Free Syrian Army -LRB- FSA -RRB- , a rebel group led by army defectors who they say is protecting them . 
But others believe that might only make things worse . 
`` They are armed because they are desperate and have lost hope of a political solution , not only because they are facing daily violence , '' Mr Hussein says . 
`` But if you provide them with some hope , they may give up on the military solution . '' 
Bassam Youssef , another opposition figure , believes arming the opposition will only lead to a civil war . 
Several states have advocated arming the opposition in Syria so people can defend themselves `` Taking up arms will be a dead end for the revolutionaries , '' he says . 
`` It is the path the regime has pushed for , because it will distance the protesters from the civil nature of the revolution . '' 
Mr Youssef is the secretary general of the Together for Syria movement , which was established in June and aims to achieve the end of President Assad 's rule through a transitional phase and the formation of a national unity government . 
`` The regime kept blaming the problem on armed groups , until the myth turned into reality , '' he adds . 
`` Now there are armed people within the opposition . 
They had to because they needed to defend themselves . '' 
Mr Youssef still believes that politicians and intellectuals should make efforts to convince people not to arm themselves , and that the only way out is to follow the non-violent path to revolution . 
Many in Syria , even the government 's supporters , believe there must now be a concerted effort to find a political solution . 
The question remains , how far President Assad 's government - the most powerful side in this conflict - is willing to commit to one . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria crisis : Kofi Annan seeks to set up monitoring team Thousands have fled an army offensive against the rebels in northern Syria The UN and Arab League envoy on Syria , Kofi Annan , says he is sending a team to Damascus to discuss setting up a new international monitoring mission . 
After briefing the Security Council about his peace efforts , Mr Annan renewed calls for an end to fighting and for unimpeded humanitarian aid . 
Syria said it was ready to co-operate with Mr Annan , but also reaffirmed its determination to combat `` terrorists '' . 
Meanwhile the Turkish government has urged its nationals to leave Syria . 
The foreign ministry in Ankara said developments in Syria have led to `` serious security risks '' . 
Mr Annan , who held talks with President Bashir al-Assad in Damascus last week , briefed the Security Council in New York via a video link from Geneva on Friday . 
In a news conference later , he said : `` I will be sending teams in this weekend to pursue the discussions on the proposals we left on the table . '' 
Kofi Annan : `` I will be sending a team in this weekend to pursue the discussions '' He also restated the main aims of his peace initiative - an immediate ceasefire by both sides , access for humanitarian aid , and the beginning of political dialogue . 
BBC Middle East editor Jeremy Bowen says it is an ambitious plan that at the moment looks more likely to fail than to succeed . 
Mr Annan said he had urged the Security Council to speak with `` one voice '' . 
The international community remains divided on Syria , with Russia and China both blocking UN Security Council resolutions on Syria and aid groups from 27 countries urging them to condemn the government 's use of violence . 
But the two permanent members have backed Mr Annan 's peace mission . 
Jonathan Head BBC News , Turkey-Syria border With refugees streaming across the border at a rate of up to 1,000 a day , Turkey is being forced to rethink its policy towards Syria . 
Public anger over the reports of terrible atrocities by President Assad 's forces , and over the detention and alleged torture of two Turkish journalists , are also putting pressure on the government . 
That may be why Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his ministers are for the first time talking openly about establishing a buffer zone , to protect civilians , inside Syria . 
It would involve Turkish troops crossing the border to protect the buffer zone , and inevitably bring them into conflict with the Syrian army . 
That is a very big step for Turkey to take , and it is unlikely to happen unless the flow of refugees becomes a tide of many tens of thousands , and Turkey gets a green light , if not from the UN - at least from its Western allies and the Arab League . 
Mr Annan was speaking a day after the first anniversary of the country 's uprising , which has left more than 8,000 people dead . 
The violence has continued despite a month-long observer mission sent by the Arab League in December and January . 
Its aim was to verify implementation of a now defunct peace initiative . 
Fresh protests were held on Friday in cities across Syria - including Idlib in the north where the government has launched a fierce offensive against the rebel Free Syrian Army . 
Many anti-government demonstrators called for foreign military intervention . 
Clashes between rebel fighters and the army were also reported in several parts of the country . 
President Assad insists his troops are fighting `` armed gangs '' seeking to destabilise Syria . 
The Turkish foreign ministry on Friday issued a statement saying : `` Developments in Syria pose serious security risks for our nationals . '' 
`` Therefore it is strongly recommended that Turkish nationals currently in Syria leave and return home . '' 
The ministry also said consular services in Damascus would end at the end of office hours next Thursday , but the consulate in the second city of Aleppo would remain open . 
Two Turkish journalists are currently missing in Syria , and are reportedly in the hands of the security forces . 
Some reports say they have been wounded and tortured . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria unrest : Fierce firefight erupts in Damascus Apartment buildings were damaged in heavy fighting in the al-Mezze area of Damascus Witnesses say machine-guns and rocket-propelled grenades were heard from the heavily guarded district of al-Mezze , which hosts several security buildings . 
Syrian TV said three `` terrorists '' and a security force member had been killed . 
The UN estimates more than 8,000 people have died in the year-long uprising . 
Meanwhile , a team of experts sent by special UN and Arab League envoy Kofi Annan has now arrived in Syria to discuss ceasefire and monitoring plans , AFP news agency reports . 
And in Moscow , the head of the Red Cross said that Russia had reacted `` positively '' to his call for a daily two-hour cessation of hostilities in Syria . 
Al-Mezze has previously been the scene of large anti-government protests . 
One resident told Reuters news agency there was `` fighting near Hamada supermarket and the sound of explosions there and elsewhere in the neighborhood '' . 
Lina Sinjab BBC News , Damascus The fighting centred on a flat in al-Mezze . 
Residents nearby said two floors were burnt out after the clashes . 
Gunfire continued into the morning in the district , part of central Damascus . 
This is an upmarket residential area but it also contains a substantial security presence . 
The Free Syria Army is present in suburbs of Damascus but there are no records of any presence in this part of town . 
Close by is the al-Mezze 86 district , a security stronghold , whose residents are loyal to President Assad . 
Early last month , residents of 86 district fired at protesters who took to the streets calling for an end to President Assad 's rule . 
Since then there has been heavy security in the area . 
However , some protesters managed to cut off roads by burning tyres and staging anti-Assad protests . 
He said security police blocked side streets and cut off the street lighting . 
Opposition activist Amer al-Sadeq told the BBC 's World Today program he had spoken to a contact in al-Mezze who reported four blasts within five minutes and then heavy gunfire . 
The UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights called the fighting `` the most violent of its kind and closest to security centres in Damascus since the revolution began '' , adding that 18 government troops had been injured . 
It said a cell of rebel fighters had fired a rocket-propelled grenade at the home of a leading army officer , but this has not been confirmed . 
The gunfire continued into Monday morning but is now over . 
One al-Mezze resident told AFP : `` We were very scared but now the roads are clear and stores are open . '' 
State television said that in addition to the dead , several people on both sides were injured . 
In January , the rebel Free Syria Army briefly seized several Damascus suburbs . 
The latest incident follows bomb blasts in Damascus and the northern city of Aleppo over the weekend . 
The car bomb that exploded in Aleppo on Sunday killed at least two people and injured 30 others . 
A day earlier , at least 27 people were reported to have been killed and 97 wounded in two explosions in the capital . 
State TV described the blasts as `` terrorist '' attacks . 
However , activists have accused the authorities of staging incidents to discredit opposition groups . 
Reuters news agency on Monday reported residents of the eastern city of Deir Ezzor as saying that dozens of tanks had entered the city to try to dislodge Free Syrian Army rebels . 
On Monday , a team of experts arrived in Syria to press Mr Annan 's proposals for a ceasefire and monitoring . 
Annan spokesman Ahmad Fawzi told AFP : `` There are five people with expertise in peacekeeping and mediation . 
They will be staying for as long as they are making progress to reach agreement on practical steps to implement Mr Annan 's proposals . '' 
In some parts of Syria , rebel fighters , like these in Idlib province , openly brandish their weaponry Meanwhile , the head of the International Committee of the Red Cross -LRB- ICRC -RRB- , Jakob Kellenberger , traveled to Moscow to meet Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov . 
Mr Lavrov gave `` positive indications of support ... for the initiative of a two-hour cessation of fighting on a daily basis '' , a Red Cross spokesman said . 
The ICRC says the pause is needed for the evacuation of the wounded and to allow in food and medicine . 
Mr Kellenberger added : `` I would like to note with satisfaction and gratitude that Sergei Lavrov shares our concern about these problems . '' 
Russia is a key ally of Syria and , along with China , has thwarted attempts to form a UN resolution condemning the repression . 
President Assad is trying to quell an increasingly armed rebellion that sprang from a fierce crackdown on peaceful pro-democracy protests a year ago . 
He insists his troops are fighting `` armed gangs '' seeking to destabilise Syria . 
The Syrian government has been trying to suppress an uprising inspired by events in Tunisia , Egypt and Libya . 
The UN says thousands have been killed in the crackdown , and that many more have been detained and displaced . 
The Syrian government says hundreds of security forces personnel have also died combating `` armed terrorist gangs '' . 
The family of President Bashar al-Assad has been in power since his father , Hafez , took over in a coup in 1970 . 
The country underwent some liberalisation after Bashar became president in 2000 , but the pace of change soon slowed , if not reversed . 
Critics are imprisoned , domestic media are tightly controlled , and economic policies often benefit the elite . 
The country 's human rights record is among the worst in the world . 
Syria is a country of 21 million people with a Sunni Muslim majority -LRB- 74 % -RRB- and significant minorities of Alawites - the Shia heterodox sect to which Mr Assad belongs - and Christians . 
Mr Assad promotes a secular identity for the country , but he has concentrated power in the hands of family and other Alawites . 
Protests have generally been biggest in Sunni-dominated areas . 
Under the sanctions imposed by the Arab League , US and EU , Syria 's two most vital sectors , tourism and oil , have ground to a halt in recent months . 
The IMF says Syria 's economy contracted by 2 % in 2011 , while the value of the Syrian pound has crashed . 
Unemployment is high , electricity cuts trouble Damascus , and critical products like heating oil and staples like milk powder are becoming scarce . 
Pro-democracy protests erupted in March 2011 after the arrest and torture of a group of teenagers who had painted revolutionary slogans on walls at their school in the southern city of Deraa . 
Security forces opened fire during a march against the arrests , killing four . 
The next day , the authorities shot at mourners at the victims ' funerals , killing another person . 
People began demanding the overthrow of Mr Assad . 
The government has tried to deal with the situation with a combination of minor concessions and force . 
President Assad ended the 48-year-long state of emergency and introduced a new constitution offering multi-party elections . 
But at the same time , the authorities have continued to use violence against unarmed protesters , and some cities , like Homs , have suffered weeks of intense bombardment . 
The opposition is deeply divided . 
Several groups formed a coalition , the Syrian National Council -LRB- SNC -RRB- , but it is dominated by the Sunni community and exiled dissidents . 
The SNC disagrees with the National Co-ordination Committee -LRB- NCC -RRB- on the questions of talks with the government and foreign intervention , and has found it difficult to work with the Free Syrian Army - army defectors seeking to topple Mr Assad by force . 
International pressure on the Syrian government has been intensifying . 
It has been suspended from the Arab League , while the EU and the US have imposed sanctions . 
However , there has been no agreement on a UN Security Council resolution calling for an end to violence . 
Although military intervention has been ruled out by Western nations , there are increasing calls to arm the opposition . 
Correspondents say a peaceful solution seems unlikely . 
Syria 's leadership seems intent on crushing resistance and most of the opposition will only accept an end to the regime . 
Some believe the expected collapse of Syria 's currency and an inability to pay salaries may be the leadership 's downfall . 
There are fears , though , that the resulting chaos would be long-lasting and create a wider conflict . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


There have been several clashes in Damascus in recent days Government tanks have shelled two suburbs of the Syrian capital Damascus , opposition activists say . 
The military assault on Harasta and Irbin began in the early hours of the morning , after rebels attacked a government intelligence compound , they said . 
There are reports of army offensives in other parts of Syria . 
Meanwhile the UN Security Council has approved a statement backing a peace plan , diplomats say . 
The plan , put forward by UN and Arab League envoy Kofi Annan , was supported by both China and Russia , which have in the past blocked two resolutions by the council on Syria . 
It is not binding and falls short of a formal resolution , according to diplomats . 
US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said it was a `` positive step '' , and urged Syrian President Bashar Assad to `` take this path , commit to it , or face increasing pressure and isolation '' . 
Diplomats said Western powers had agreed to soften the statement in order to gain the support of Russia , which had threatened to veto an earlier , tougher draft . 
Mr Annan has spent the last few weeks meeting all sides in the conflict - putting forward proposals to try to bring about an immediate ceasefire by both sides , access for humanitarian aid and the beginning of political dialogue . 
UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon earlier warned of serious repercussions if the crisis in Syria is not resolved . 
Speaking at a conference in Indonesia he warned the world could not afford to look away . 
`` We all have a responsibility to work for a resolution of this profound and extremely dangerous situation , a crisis that has potentially massive repercussions for the region and the world , '' he said . 
The British-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights gave details of army activity in the Khalidiya district of Homs and activists have also reported shelling in Rastan , north of Homs , and at Qalat Mudiq , northwest of Hama . 
Syria restricts access to foreign media which often makes it impossible to independently verify reports coming out of the country . 
The UN says more than 8,000 people have been killed in the year-long uprising , while tens of thousands of people have fled their homes . 
On Tuesday Russia warned Syria 's leadership it was making `` a lot of mistakes '' , signalling Moscow may be hardening its stance on Damascus . 
Russia is a key ally of Syria and , along with China , has twice thwarted attempts to agree to a UN resolution condemning Mr Assad 's actions . 
But observers believe Moscow 's patience with Damascus has been wearing thin . 
Meanwhile the US campaign group Human Rights Watch -LRB- HRW -RRB- accused elements of Syria 's armed opposition of carrying out serious human rights abuses , including kidnapping , torture and execution . 
The opposition Syrian National Council said in a statement that it `` deplores the reported incidents of human rights violations by armed opposition groups in Syria '' and it is working to ensure `` abuse does not happen in the fight for freedom '' . 
HRW has frequently accused Syria 's government of abuse over the past year of conflict . 
The Syrian government has been trying to suppress an uprising inspired by events in Tunisia , Egypt and Libya . 
The UN says thousands have been killed in the crackdown , and that many more have been detained and displaced . 
The Syrian government says hundreds of security forces personnel have also died combating `` armed terrorist gangs '' . 
The family of President Bashar al-Assad has been in power since his father , Hafez , took over in a coup in 1970 . 
The country underwent some liberalisation after Bashar became president in 2000 , but the pace of change soon slowed , if not reversed . 
Critics are imprisoned , domestic media are tightly controlled , and economic policies often benefit the elite . 
The country 's human rights record is among the worst in the world . 
Syria is a country of 21 million people with a Sunni Muslim majority -LRB- 74 % -RRB- and significant minorities of Alawites - the Shia heterodox sect to which Mr Assad belongs - and Christians . 
Mr Assad promotes a secular identity for the country , but he has concentrated power in the hands of family and other Alawites . 
Protests have generally been biggest in Sunni-dominated areas . 
Under the sanctions imposed by the Arab League , US and EU , Syria 's two most vital sectors , tourism and oil , have ground to a halt in recent months . 
The IMF says Syria 's economy contracted by 2 % in 2011 , while the value of the Syrian pound has crashed . 
Unemployment is high , electricity cuts trouble Damascus , and critical products like heating oil and staples like milk powder are becoming scarce . 
Pro-democracy protests erupted in March 2011 after the arrest and torture of a group of teenagers who had painted revolutionary slogans on walls at their school in the southern city of Deraa . 
Security forces opened fire during a march against the arrests , killing four . 
The next day , the authorities shot at mourners at the victims ' funerals , killing another person . 
People began demanding the overthrow of Mr Assad . 
The government has tried to deal with the situation with a combination of minor concessions and force . 
President Assad ended the 48-year-long state of emergency and introduced a new constitution offering multi-party elections . 
But at the same time , the authorities have continued to use violence against unarmed protesters , and some cities , like Homs , have suffered weeks of intense bombardment . 
The opposition is deeply divided . 
Several groups formed a coalition , the Syrian National Council -LRB- SNC -RRB- , but it is dominated by the Sunni community and exiled dissidents . 
The SNC disagrees with the National Co-ordination Committee -LRB- NCC -RRB- on the questions of talks with the government and foreign intervention , and has found it difficult to work with the Free Syrian Army - army defectors seeking to topple Mr Assad by force . 
International pressure on the Syrian government has been intensifying . 
It has been suspended from the Arab League , while the EU and the US have imposed sanctions . 
However , there has been no agreement on a UN Security Council resolution calling for an end to violence . 
Although military intervention has been ruled out by Western nations , there are increasing calls to arm the opposition . 
Correspondents say a peaceful solution seems unlikely . 
Syria 's leadership seems intent on crushing resistance and most of the opposition will only accept an end to the regime . 
Some believe the expected collapse of Syria 's currency and an inability to pay salaries may be the leadership 's downfall . 
There are fears , though , that the resulting chaos would be long-lasting and create a wider conflict . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites 


US urges Syria to work with Annan peace plan The 15 Security Council members backed a non-binding statement on Annan 's peace plan for Syria The United States has warned Syria to co-operate with a UN-backed peace plan . 
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton urged President Bashar al-Assad to `` take this path , commit to it , or face increasing pressure and isolation '' . 
The peace plan , put forward by UN envoy Kofi Annan , has now been endorsed by the UN Security Council , with support from Russia and China . 
Meanwhile , government tanks shelled two suburbs of the Syrian capital Damascus , according to opposition activists . 
The military assault on Hasrata and Irbin began in the early hours of the morning , after rebels attacked a government intelligence compound , they said . 
There are reports of army offensives in other parts of Syria . 
A UN Security Council statement on Wednesday expressed full support for Mr Annan 's plan to end to all violence , secure humanitarian access and to facilitate a political transition . 
We all have a responsibility to work for a resolution of this profound and extremely dangerous situation , a crisis that has potentially massive repercussions for the region and the world '' End Quote Ban Ki-moon UN secretary general It also says the council will `` consider further steps as appropriate '' , without specifying a time frame . 
It is not binding and falls short of a formal resolution . 
But the BBC 's Nada Tawfik at the UN says diplomats hope it will intensify pressure on Mr Assad to work co-operatively with Mr Annan . 
Diplomats said Western powers had agreed to soften the statement in order to gain the support of Russia and China , which had threatened to veto an earlier , tougher draft . 
China and Russia have in the past blocked two resolutions by the council condemning Mr Assad 's actions . 
Mr Annan has spent the last few weeks meeting all sides in the conflict - putting forward proposals to try to bring about an immediate ceasefire by both sides , access for humanitarian aid and the beginning of political dialogue . 
UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon earlier warned of serious repercussions if the crisis in Syria is not resolved . 
Speaking at a conference in Indonesia he warned the world could not afford to look away . 
`` We all have a responsibility to work for a resolution of this profound and extremely dangerous situation , a crisis that has potentially massive repercussions for the region and the world , '' he said . 
In Syria itself , the British-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said the army had been active in the Khalidiya district of Homs . 
Activists have also reported shelling in Rastan , north of Homs , and at Qalat Mudiq , northwest of Hama . 
Syria restricts access to foreign media which often makes it impossible to independently verify reports coming out of the country . 
The UN says more than 8,000 people have been killed in the year-long uprising , while tens of thousands of people have fled their homes . 
On Tuesday , Russia - a key ally of Damascus - warned Syria 's leadership it was making `` a lot of mistakes '' , signalling Moscow may be hardening its stance on Damascus . 
The same day US campaign group Human Rights Watch -LRB- HRW -RRB- accused elements of Syria 's armed opposition of carrying out serious human rights abuses , including kidnapping , torture and execution . 
The opposition Syrian National Council said in a statement that it `` deplores the reported incidents of human rights violations by armed opposition groups in Syria '' and it is working to ensure `` abuse does not happen in the fight for freedom '' . 
HRW has frequently accused Syria 's government of abuses during the conflict . 
The Syrian government has been trying to suppress an uprising inspired by events in Tunisia , Egypt and Libya . 
The UN says thousands have been killed in the crackdown , and that many more have been detained and displaced . 
The Syrian government says hundreds of security forces personnel have also died combating `` armed terrorist gangs '' . 
The family of President Bashar al-Assad has been in power since his father , Hafez , took over in a coup in 1970 . 
The country underwent some liberalisation after Bashar became president in 2000 , but the pace of change soon slowed , if not reversed . 
Critics are imprisoned , domestic media are tightly controlled , and economic policies often benefit the elite . 
The country 's human rights record is among the worst in the world . 
Syria is a country of 21 million people with a Sunni Muslim majority -LRB- 74 % -RRB- and significant minorities of Alawites - the Shia heterodox sect to which Mr Assad belongs - and Christians . 
Mr Assad promotes a secular identity for the country , but he has concentrated power in the hands of family and other Alawites . 
Protests have generally been biggest in Sunni-dominated areas . 
Under the sanctions imposed by the Arab League , US and EU , Syria 's two most vital sectors , tourism and oil , have ground to a halt in recent months . 
The IMF says Syria 's economy contracted by 2 % in 2011 , while the value of the Syrian pound has crashed . 
Unemployment is high , electricity cuts trouble Damascus , and critical products like heating oil and staples like milk powder are becoming scarce . 
Pro-democracy protests erupted in March 2011 after the arrest and torture of a group of teenagers who had painted revolutionary slogans on walls at their school in the southern city of Deraa . 
Security forces opened fire during a march against the arrests , killing four . 
The next day , the authorities shot at mourners at the victims ' funerals , killing another person . 
People began demanding the overthrow of Mr Assad . 
The government has tried to deal with the situation with a combination of minor concessions and force . 
President Assad ended the 48-year-long state of emergency and introduced a new constitution offering multi-party elections . 
But at the same time , the authorities have continued to use violence against unarmed protesters , and some cities , like Homs , have suffered weeks of intense bombardment . 
The opposition is deeply divided . 
Several groups formed a coalition , the Syrian National Council -LRB- SNC -RRB- , but it is dominated by the Sunni community and exiled dissidents . 
The SNC disagrees with the National Co-ordination Committee -LRB- NCC -RRB- on the questions of talks with the government and foreign intervention , and has found it difficult to work with the Free Syrian Army - army defectors seeking to topple Mr Assad by force . 
International pressure on the Syrian government has been intensifying . 
It has been suspended from the Arab League , while the EU and the US have imposed sanctions . 
However , there has been no agreement on a UN Security Council resolution calling for an end to violence . 
Although military intervention has been ruled out by Western nations , there are increasing calls to arm the opposition . 
Correspondents say a peaceful solution seems unlikely . 
Syria 's leadership seems intent on crushing resistance and most of the opposition will only accept an end to the regime . 
Some believe the expected collapse of Syria 's currency and an inability to pay salaries may be the leadership 's downfall . 
There are fears , though , that the resulting chaos would be long-lasting and create a wider conflict . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


The international community has imposed wide-ranging sanctions on President Bashar al-Assad 's regime , in an attempt to put pressure on the Syrian government to stop using violence against demonstrators . 
The Arab League , European Union , United States and Turkey have all imposed economic sanctions on Syrian individuals and companies . 
In March , First Lady Asma al-Assad became the latest person connected to the regime to be targeted for sanctions when EU foreign ministers imposed a travel ban and asset freeze on her . 
What sanctions are already in place on Syria ? 
The EU , Syria 's biggest trading partner , has imposed travel bans and asset freezes on more than 120 individuals and 40 companies . 
These include President Assad and most of his close family , the Syrian Central Bank and senior officials , including seven ministers . 
Last year , the EU banned crude oil imports from Syria and in February it expanded sanctions to block trade in gold , precious metals and diamonds with Syrian public bodies and the central bank . 
The US designated Syria a `` state sponsor of terror '' in 1979 , a label which brought a raft of sanctions with it . 
Those have been added to since , by the Bush administration in 2004 and last year by Barack Obama in response to the current crisis . 
In August 2011 President Obama signed a new executive order , imposing sanctions on Syria 's energy sector and freezing all Syrian government assets in the US . 
Arab League members suspended Syria last November and imposed sanctions . 
They include the freezing of Syrian government assets in Arab countries , stopping dealings with the Syrian central bank , the suspension of commercial flights to and from Syria , halting investment by Arab governments for projects in Syria , and a travel ban on senior officials . 
However , some Arab states - particularly Syria 's neighbors , said the sanctions would be difficult to apply . 
Turkey announced plans to freeze Syrian government assets and suspend all financial dealings with Turkey on 30 November 2011 . 
Foreign Minister Ahmed Davutoglu also said a co-operation agreement with Syria would be suspended until a new government was in place . 
Canada , Australia and Switzerland have also imposed sanctions . 
What is likely to have the biggest impact ? 
The EU 's oil import ban is likely to hit Syria 's economy hardest . 
Oil revenues account for around 20 % of Syrian GDP . 
Before the EU ban , 90 % of oil exports went to the EU , mainly to Germany , Italy and France . 
According to some experts , when the ban came into force , Syria was confident that other buyers could be found , in China and India for example . 
However , initial indications are that other buyers have been harder to find than first thought and that production may have fallen as a result . 
Enforcing a wider trade embargo may be more difficult , given that Syria 's long borders have been historically porous and prone to smuggling , particularly those with Lebanon and Iraq . 
Who are Syria 's largest trading partners ? 
According to the European Commission , in 2010 the EU was Syria 's biggest trading partner , accounting for 22.5 % of Syrian trade , followed by Iraq -LRB- 13.3 % -RRB- , Saudi Arabia -LRB- 9 % -RRB- and China -LRB- 6.9 % . -RRB- 
Turkey was in fifth place with 6.6 % and Russia was ninth with 3 % . 
Who opposes sanctions on Syria ? 
Three members of the Arab League voted against Syria 's suspension - Syria itself , Lebanon and Yemen , with Iraq abstaining . 
Syria still exerts substantial influence in the politics of neighbouring Lebanon , which also abstained in a UN Security Council vote in October 2011 on a resolution backing the use of `` targeted measures '' against Syria if the clampdown continued . 
That resolution was vetoed by Russia and China , who have expressed their opposition to UN involvement in Syria 's internal affairs . 
Russia 's UN Ambassador Vitaly Churkin expressed concerns that a resolution could lead to a Libyan-style foreign military intervention in Syria . 
According to the Moscow-based Centre for Analysis of Strategies and Technologies , current contracts for sales of arms and military equipment from Russia to Syria are worth at least $ 2.5 bn -LRB- # 1.58 bn . -RRB- 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


The UN-Arab League envoy to Syria , Kofi Annan , has arrived in Moscow amid reports of 24 new civilian deaths in Syria . 
Mr Annan will try to persuade Russia to take a firmer stance against the Syrian government . 
Next week , he will travel to China which , like Russia , has generally supported Syria at the UN . 
Ten of the new deaths were reported in Homs , the city at the heart of the revolt against Bashar al-Assad . 
`` The shelling started like it does every morning , for no reason , '' an activist in the city 's Bab Sbaa district told Reuters news agency via Skype . 
`` They are using mortar and tank fire on many neighborhoods of old Homs . '' 
The activist added that most residents in the area had fled to safer districts and many were trying to escape the city altogether . 
Foreign media face severe restrictions on reporting in Syria , and it is hard to verify the claims of either side . 
The Associated Press news agency has seen video apparently showing a huge explosion in Homs . 
The footage , released by an activist group called the Shaam News Network , shows a large ball of fire and plume of black smoke . 
According to the London-based Observatory for Human Rights , a total of 24 civilians died on Saturday as well as 15 soldiers and two rebels . 
One activist , Nureddin al-Abdo , told AFP news agency that government troops backed by 26 tanks had attacked the town of Saraqeb in the north-western province of Idlib . 
All the signs are that the regime intends to continue its drive unless armed rebels simply surrender , the BBC 's Jim Muir reports from Beirut in neighbouring Lebanon . 
That is the message to Kofi Annan as he urges the government to call an immediate halt to the use of heavy arms in populated areas , our correspondent says . 
Whether the route ahead lies with his peace efforts , or with further confrontation , the opposition clearly needs to unify its divided ranks , he adds . 
It has announced moves to unite its fragmented military efforts and also to hold a meeting in Istanbul on Monday , to try to bring the various political groups together behind a shared vision for Syria 's future . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Search , find and watch the politics that affects you Search Democracy Live Find a representative or topic , or words spoken in our video coverage Following a representative makes it simple to find out where and when they have spoken . 
Videos are listed in one place , allowing you quick and easy access . 
Member 's debate : Violence in Syria SNP MSP Jim Eadie tells MSPs the `` anguish of the people of Syria is truly heartbreaking '' , during his member 's debate on the violence there , on 28 March 2012 . 
Mr Eadie said '' we must not ignore their plight '' and the debate allowed the parliament to unite on behalf of the people of Scotland with the people of Syria . 
The debate came as Syrian forces bombarded a town in the province of Hama for the 17th straight day , according to activists . 
The Arab League has been discussing a peace plan to end a year of fighting in Syria . 
The UN and the Arab League have called on Syria to adopt the plan . 
But Syria has said it will not address any initiative from the Arab League , from which it was suspended last year . 
Mr Eadie 's motion highlighted the growing humanitarian crisis in Syria and support the call by Ban Ki-moon , United Nations Secretary General , for the world to speak with one voice on this issue . 
It also called for immediate and full access to humanitarian relief for vulnerable people in the country . 
Culture and External Affairs Secretary Fiona Hyslop said : `` I welcome this debate to draw attention to the awful situation in Libya . '' 


UN Human Rights Commissioner Navi Pillay : `` President Assad could simply issue an order to stop the killings '' Syrian authorities are systematically detaining and torturing children , the United Nations ' human rights chief , Navi Pillay , has told the BBC . 
Ms Pillay said President Bashar al-Assad could end the detentions and stop the killing of civilians immediately , simply by issuing an order . 
Syria has accepted a peace plan , amid scepticism about its intentions . 
Most opposition groups have now agreed that the Syrian National Council will formally represent the Syrian people . 
Navi Pillay , in an interview with the BBC before Syria accepted the plan , said Mr Assad would face justice for the abuses carried out by his security forces . 
Asked if he bore command responsibility for the abuses , Ms Pillay said : `` That is the legal situation . 
Factually there is enough evidence pointing to the fact that many of these acts are committed by the security forces -LRB- and -RRB- must have received the approval or the complicity at the highest level . 
`` Because President Assad could simply issue an order to stop the killings and the killings would stop . '' 
Ms Pillay said she believed that the UN Security Council had enough reliable information to warrant referring Syria to the International Criminal Court -LRB- ICC -RRB- . 
Jonathan Head BBC News , Istanbul We have been here before . 
Last November , President Assad agreed to a deal proposed by the Arab League which had many of the same elements as the Annan plan - withdrawal of government forces from residential areas , freeing of political prisoners and good-faith negotiations with the opposition . 
None of those promises was kept . 
The Annan plan contains no timetable for implementation , but for it to get any momentum , it must produce results on the ground in a matter of days . 
The Syrian opposition groups who have been meeting in Istanbul this week are unanimous in their belief that President Assad is just playing for time . 
So they are convinced they will never have to confront the dilemma over whether to sit down and negotiate with him . 
At Russia 's request , the Annan plan makes no mention of any requirement for President Assad to leave office . 
But almost all the opposition groups say that requirement is non-negotiable ; all they would be willing to talk about is how he leaves office , and what kind of system follows his departure . 
`` I feel that investigation and prosecution is a crucial element to deter and call a stop to these violations , '' she said . 
She listed what she called `` horrendous '' treatment of children during the unrest . 
`` They 've gone for the children - for whatever purposes - in large numbers . 
Hundreds detained and tortured ... it 's just horrendous , '' she said . 
`` Children shot in the knees , held together with adults in really inhumane conditions , denied medical treatment for their injuries , either held as hostages or as sources of information . '' 
Ms Pillay said anyone who committed such violations would be held to account . 
`` There is no statute of limitations so people like -LRB- Mr Assad -RRB- can go on for a very long time but one day they will have to face justice . '' 
On Tuesday , Radhika Coomaraswamy , the UN special representative for children and armed conflict , said they had received claims that the rebel Free Syrian Army was using children as fighters . 
The UN says more than 9,000 people have been killed since the uprising against President Assad began a year ago . 
Late on Tuesday , several Syrian dissident groups meeting in Istanbul agreed to recognize the Syrian National Council as the official representative of the Syrian people . 
The BBC 's Jonathan Head at the gathering said none of the delegates he spoke to believed President Assad was sincere , and the Syrian opposition would never accept any deal allowing him to remain in power . 
US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said President Bashar al-Assad would be judged by events . 
But our correspondent says their disunity was openly on display , with constant disputes and walkouts . 
Earlier , a spokesman for UN and Arab League envoy Kofi Annan said he considered the Syrian acceptance of his six-point peace plan an `` important initial step '' but that implementation was key . 
Mr Annan - currently in Beijing where he has held talks with Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao - has written to President Assad urging him to put his commitments into immediate effect . 
US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said President Assad would be judged by events . 
`` Given Assad 's history of over-promising and under-delivering , that commitment must now be matched by immediate actions , '' she said . 
`` If he is ready to bring this dark chapter in Syria 's history to a close he can prove it by immediately ordering regime forces to stop firing and begin withdrawing from populated areas . '' 
However , there were reports of further violence on Wednesday . 
Syrian-led political process to address the aspirations and concerns of the Syrian people 2 . 
UN-supervised cessation of armed violence in all its forms by all parties to protect civilians 3 . 
All parties to ensure provision of humanitarian assistance to all areas affected by the fighting , and implement a daily two-hour humanitarian pause 4 . 
Authorities to intensify the pace and scale of release of arbitrarily detained persons 5 . 
Authorities to ensure freedom of movement throughout the country for journalists 6 . 
Authorities to respect freedom of association and the right to demonstrate peacefully London-based opposition group the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said that government forces backed by tanks had stormed the central town of Qalaat al-Madi at dawn , following a 17-day barrage . 
A local activist told AFP news agency that fighters with the Free Syrian Army had withdrawn from the area . 
Arab League foreign ministers meeting in Baghdad on Wednesday are expected to strongly back Mr Annan 's peace mission , calling for talks between the Syrian opposition and government . 
Syria is expected to dominate an Arab League summit in the Iraqi capital on Thursday . 
Speaking to the BBC , Arab League Secretary General Nabil al-Arabi reiterated that the league had not called for the arming of the Syrian opposition . 
He said it was instead a decision for individual member states . 
The six-point plan calls for Mr Assad 's government to remove troops and heavy weapons from population centres and for all parties to allow a daily two-hour ceasefire for humanitarian aid to reach affected areas . 
The plan also requests that authorities release those detained in the uprising . 
However , it does not impose any deadline for Mr Assad , or call for him to leave power . 
The BBC 's Barbara Plett at the UN says that , despite the scepticism , this is the first strategy for ending the conflict that has the backing of the entire Security Council , including Syria 's allies Russia and China . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 
28th March 2012 - 15:39 The reports of the Syrian Government killing children make chilling reading . 
Hopefully when the pointless killing stops the world will hold those responsible to account . 
However , the killing fields of Cambodia and , more lately Sri Lanka , have shown that those responsible can look forward to a long life even after the murders have ceased . 
28th March 2012 - 11:00 Many questions here on who to believe : Syrian Government or the rebels . 
If the Syrian government allowed international journalists in , not just western but international , we would get closer to the truth . 
But the Syrian Government denies access to journalists . 
Obviously , there is something they do n't want the world to see . 
Stop accusing and denying and let everyone see for themselves . 
28th March 2012 - 8:13 44 . 
Oh , come off it , the Syrian government has been making spurious claims left right and center about all the rebels being armed gangs with close to zero evidence backing up their claims . 
If the Assad wants to end the allegations he could allow monitors into the camps or even end child detention completely . 
Otherwise , he only has himself to blame when UN officials say these things . 
28th March 2012 - 8:07 The Syrian `` revolution '' obviously did not have much support within Syria . 
Unlike Gaddafi , who relied on mercenaries , Assad has a large armed force who have not revolted . 
The best outcome is for the rebel groups to negotiate . 
I can not see any appetite for regime removal within Syria or in the world community . 
And neither side is innocent of atrocities . 
28th March 2012 - 7:05 Like all civilians in a war zone , children are victims too , Having said that , these accustions , if true , are beyond the pale . 
It is easy to make generalised statements about who is doing what , but if this is happening on the scale alleged , there would be hard evidence available . 
If Pillay has evidence to support her claims , then she should produce it . 
All posts are reactively-moderated and must obey the house rules . 


Syria clashes as Arab League meets in Baghdad Qalaat al-Mandiq , known for its historic fortress , has been under siege for more than two weeks , activists say Syrian forces are bombarding a town in the province of Hama for the 17th straight day , activists say , as the Arab League discusses a peace plan to end a year of fighting in Syria . 
Government troops stormed the rebel bastion of Qalaat al-Madiq , said the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights . 
The UN and the Arab League have called on Syria to adopt the plan . 
But Syria has said it will not address any initiative from the Arab League , from which it was suspended last year . 
The plan put forward by UN-Arab League envoy Kofi Annan calls for a commitment from all parties to stop armed violence ; a daily two-hour ceasefire to allow aid to get through ; and media access to areas affected by fighting . 
On Tuesday , the UN said the Syrian government had agreed to accept the plan - a claim met by scepticism from anti-government activists . 
Jonathan Head BBC News , Istanbul We have been here before . 
Last November , President Assad agreed to a deal proposed by the Arab League which had many of the same elements as the Annan plan - withdrawal of government forces from residential areas , freeing of political prisoners and good-faith negotiations with the opposition . 
None of those promises was kept . 
The Annan plan contains no timetable for implementation , but for it to get any momentum , it must produce results on the ground in a matter of days . 
The Syrian opposition groups who have been meeting in Istanbul this week are unanimous in their belief that President Assad is just playing for time . 
So they are convinced they will never have to confront the dilemma over whether to sit down and negotiate with him . 
At Russia 's request , the Annan plan makes no mention of any requirement for President Assad to leave office . 
But almost all the opposition groups say that requirement is non-negotiable ; all they would be willing to talk about is how he leaves office , and what kind of system follows his departure . 
But on Wednesday , a Syrian government spokesman told the BBC : `` Since our membership was suspended , we deal with other Arab countries on a bilateral level only . 
`` Therefore , we will not be dealing with or addressing any initiative that comes out of the Arab League at any level , '' Jihad Makdisi said . 
Syrian forces stormed Qalaat al-Madiq and nearby villages in Hama after a siege lasting more than two weeks , the UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said on its website . 
Their claim can not be independently verified , as Syria severely restricts journalists ' freedom of movement . 
One activist said thousands of people had fled the area , including the rebels , who did not have enough weapons to fight back , Reuters reported . 
More than 40 people were killed in Qalaat al-Mandiq in recent days , the Observatory said . 
Meanwhile , shelling continued around Homs , Syria 's third-largest city and the scene of a major offensive by government forces last month , activists said . 
UN human rights commissioner Navi Pillay accused the Syrian government of systematically detaining and torturing children . 
Syrian-led political process to address the aspirations and concerns of the Syrian people 2 . 
UN-supervised cessation of armed violence in all its forms by all parties to protect civilians 3 . 
All parties to ensure provision of humanitarian assistance to all areas affected by the fighting , and implement a daily two-hour humanitarian pause 4 . 
Authorities to intensify the pace and scale of release of arbitrarily detained persons 5 . 
Authorities to ensure freedom of movement throughout the country for journalists 6 . 
Authorities to respect freedom of association and the right to demonstrate peacefully In an interview with the BBC , Ms Pillay said President Bashar al-Assad bore command responsibility for the abuses carried out by his security forces and would face justice . 
`` Factually , there is enough evidence pointing to the fact that many of these acts are committed by the security forces -LRB- and -RRB- must have received the approval or the complicity at the highest level , '' Ms Pillay said . 
`` Because President Assad could simply issue an order to stop the killings and the killings would stop . '' 
Ms Pillay said she believed that the UN Security Council had enough reliable information to warrant referring Syria to the International Criminal Court -LRB- ICC -RRB- . 
Late on Tuesday , several Syrian dissident groups meeting in Istanbul agreed to recognize the Syrian National Council -LRB- SNC -RRB- as the official representative of the Syrian people . 
But the BBC 's Jonathan Head , in Istanbul , says their disunity was openly on display , with constant disputes and walkouts . 
The UN says more than 9,000 people have been killed since the uprising against President Assad began a year ago . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


World press urges Syria to honor peace plan `` Like a conqueror '' - Mr Assad visiting Baba Amr There was unbridled enthusiasm in the Chinese press following Syrian President Bashar al-Assad 's apparent acceptance of the peace plan proposed by the UN and Arab League envoy , Kofi Annan . 
There was also a warm welcome for it in Russia . 
Commentators spoke of `` hope '' being reignited and a growing momentum for peace . 
But Turkey 's newspapers urged caution , with one paper believing the government is playing for time . 
Elsewhere , papers in Lebanon criticised Mr Assad 's visit to the shattered Baba Amr district of Homs , with one painting him as a defiant Arab conqueror , like `` Saladin at the gates of Jerusalem '' . 
`` The Western powers have finally come to terms with the reality that their aggressive approach toward the Syrian crisis will never win broad international support . 
To pave the way for peace in Syria , the international community should continue to build on the good momentum that is developing . 
It is hoped the Arab League summit ... will also send out positive signals and add to the growing momentum for a peaceful solution . '' 
Ruan Zongze in China Daily `` Hope has been reignited after the international community was divided ... China should continue supporting Annan 's work ... More Chinese envoys and delegations should be sent to conduct further mediation . '' 
`` China and Russia have consistently supported a peaceful resolution of the Syria issue and are firm supporters of Annan 's peace mission ... It is hoped that the parties concerned in Syria will co-ordinate with Annan 's mediation efforts to create the conditions to promote a political resolution of the Syrian crisis . '' 
Maksim Yusin in business daily Kommersant `` If Damascus had kept resisting , the Kremlin could have turned away from the Syrian ally that has been creating a lot of trouble for Moscow on the international arena . 
But Bashar al-Assad chose to show flexibility , which will at least allow him to play for time ... However , the actual implementation of the peace plan is still a while away . 
Instead of negotiating a ceasefire , government forces and the opposition are fighting fiercely . '' 
`` The Syrian government 's approval of Annan 's plan is a step on the right path towards a sound political solution that would keep Syria away from the risk of slipping into a civil war . '' 
Rajih al-Khuri in Lebanon 's Al-Nahar `` President Bashar al-Assad 's visit -LRB- on Wednesday -RRB- to inspect Baba Amr will make no change regarding the pace of the conflict that pushes Syria towards civil war , while the world is still watching ... Assad wanted to send a message to the Baghdad Arab summit to the effect that the ` Arab initiative ' is something of the past . '' 
`` Bashar al-Assad entered Baba Amr like a conqueror , as if he were Saladin standing at the gates of Jerusalem ... It simply looks as if he came from another country to watch the tragedy of a city whose sole mistake was saying no to dictatorship , eternal presidency , tyranny and oppression ... He came to say to the world that the open war against the Syrian people will continue as long as these people are left alone due to blind , unfair international interests . '' 
`` From Prime Minister -LRB- Recep Tayyip -RRB- Erdogan 's statements , we know that Ankara does not ` approve ' of this process . 
Assad 's approval of the Annan plan has wrong-footed Ankara . '' 
Ibrahim Karagul in Yeni Safak `` Even if it approves the Annan plan , Syria will continue the operations . 
It will not hesitate to play dangerous cards like Lebanon , because its ` yes ' decision is only to gain time . 
Even if it envisages a ceasefire and is seen as a first step to a solution , the Annan plan , which Russia and China also found agreeable , will turn out to be an ineffective option after a while . '' 
Deniz Ulke Aribogan in Aksam `` The Syrian government 's approval of the Annan plan is a serious step . 
However , being able to implement this plan is as important as approving it . 
Many believe that the Syrian government 's plan is to gain time while approving the proposals . 
We will wait and see . 
If Syria does not act according to the plan , the situation will become much worse . '' 
BBC Monitoring selects and translates news from radio , television , press , news agencies and the internet from 150 countries in more than 70 languages . 
It is based in Caversham , UK , and has several bureaux abroad . 


Smoke billowed above Baghdad after a blast near the secure Green Zone Arab League leaders have called for the immediate implementation of a joint plan with the UN to end a year of violence in Syria . 
Syria 's President Bashar al-Assad has accepted the plan , state media report , but says `` terrorism '' must stop as well . 
Earlier , Iraq 's PM Nouri al-Maliki warned that arming either side in Syria would lead to a `` proxy war '' . 
He was speaking at the opening of an Arab League summit in Baghdad - the first such meeting there for decades . 
President Assad 's remarks were contained in a message to the world 's emerging powers - Brazil , Russia , India , China and South Africa - who met in Delhi on Thursday . 
He said he would work to enforce the peace plan but `` terrorism '' must stop as well , state news agency Sana reported . 
The Syrian government blames the anti-government uprising on foreign-backed terrorists and armed criminal gangs . 
The UN-Arab League plan , brokered by envoy Kofi Annan , would see a UN-monitored end to fighting , troops pulled out of opposition areas and access for humanitarian services . 
Syria first agreed to the initiative on Tuesday but violence has continued . 
A number of explosions were heard in central Baghdad as the summit was getting under way . 
Two of the blasts occurred near the Iranian embassy , eyewitnesses said . 
There were unconfirmed reports that an explosion near the city 's secure Green Zone was an IED -LRB- improvised explosive device -RRB- . 
Fewer than half the Arab League 's 22 heads of state turned up for the summit , reflecting their suspicion of Iraq 's government and its close ties to non-Arab Iran . 
Iran is also Syria 's closest ally in the Middle East . 
`` Based on our experience in Iraq , the option to arm either side of the conflict will lead to a regional and international proxy war in Syria , '' Mr Maliki said . 
The Emir of Kuwait attended the summit - the first visit by a Kuwaiti leader to Baghdad since Kuwait was invaded by Iraq under Saddam Hussein in August 1990 . 
Qatar and Saudi Arabia , the two Arab states most fiercely opposed to the Syrian government , only sent envoys . 
Arab League leaders and envoys posed for a group photo in Baghdad The summit was held in such tight security at the city 's former Republican Palace that the venue was not initially disclosed to journalists . 
While expectations were not high for the talks , the fact that they were being held in the Iraqi capital at all can be seen as a sign of progress for Iraq , says the BBC 's Wyre Davies , in Baghdad . 
UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon urged Syria `` to put commitments into immediate effect '' . 
`` The world is waiting for commitments to be translated into action . 
The key here is implementation : there is no time to waste , '' Mr Ban told the summit . 
The UK will give # 500,000 -LRB- $ 795,000 -RRB- to Syrian opposition groups , Foreign Secretary William Hague is to announce later on Thursday . 
The money will be used for `` practical non-lethal support '' and to document human rights abuses by the Syrian government , Mr Hague will say in a speech in London . 
Syrian-led political process to address the aspirations and concerns of the Syrian people 2 . 
UN-supervised cessation of armed violence in all its forms by all parties to protect civilians 3 . 
All parties to ensure provision of humanitarian assistance to all areas affected by the fighting , and implement a daily two-hour humanitarian pause 4 . 
Authorities to intensify the pace and scale of release of arbitrarily detained persons 5 . 
Authorities to ensure freedom of movement throughout the country for journalists 6 . 
Authorities to respect freedom of association and the right to demonstrate peacefully Both Qatar and Saudi Arabia have voiced their support for arming opposition forces in Syria , and some analysts believe they are already funnelling weapons to the rebels . 
Washington has urged countries to maintain pressure on the Syrian government . 
The US state department said it had `` not seen the promises that Assad made implemented '' . 
The opposition in Syria is sceptical about the terms of Mr Annan 's plan , with some saying Mr Assad is merely stalling for time in order to continue his crackdown . 
`` We are not sure if it 's political manoeuvring or a sincere act , '' said Louay Safi , a member of the opposition Syrian National Council . 
`` We have no trust in the current regime ... We have to see that they have stopped killing civilians . '' 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 
29th March 2012 - 13:32 Power corrupys and people do n't like to let it go . 
I feel for the Syrians and fear that there is a long way to go before peace is restored . 
I pray for all involved that they may find an end to this which is acceptable to all parties , but fear it is unlikely and that many more people will die . 
29th March 2012 - 13:20 By assisting the opposition forces in Lybia , the west has given hope to opposition forces in other middle eastern states . 
We assume that the governments are bad and the opposition forces are good but that 's because we have it constantly drummed into us by our media . 
I learned to read between the lines at a very early age , thanks to a wise school teacher , and would encourage others to give it a try . 
29th March 2012 - 12:50 The Libya crisis has effectively stifled the UN because China and Russia are well aware how a humanitarian crisis was manipulated to institute military action against one side and regime change -LRB- to one which has already committed acts as brutal as it 's predecessor -RRB- . 
I think the UN should agree to allow China and Russia to get the aid to the people and allowing them to do it militarily if need be . 
29th March 2012 - 11:28 the main reason that assad continues to murder his own people is the lack of a united front within the UN . 
The UN is a joke ; it stands by talking while thousands are slaughtered and fails to even reach a consensus . 
If the UN in its present format had been around in 1939 , it probably would have spent 3 years trying to reach an agreement on what should be done about hitler All posts are reactively-moderated and must obey the house rules . 


Divisions laid bare as Arab League tackles Syria By Wyre Davies BBC Middle East correspondent , Baghdad At the summit Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri Maliki warned against sparking a proxy war . 
It has cost a fortune in cash and military man-hours to stage this summit - the first in Iraq for more than 20 years . 
Thousands of police and heavily armed SWAT teams have been stationed at every major intersection and strategic points in Baghdad . 
There was also a daylong curfew , much to the frustration of local traders if not the little boys playing football on the capital 's empty streets . 
As a journalist , covering this summit has been a logistical and organisational nightmare . 
There have been endless queues at checkpoints , little access to ministers and a bureaucratic minefield to get official accreditation . 
It is saying something that the last Arab League Summit I covered in Col Muammar Gaddafi 's Libya was only marginally less of a `` car-crash '' . 
Iraq 's relations with some of its Arab neighbors are still tense . 
UN head Ban Ki-moon urged Syria to start implementing Kofi Annan 's plan That is perhaps one reason why more than half of the League 's 22 heads of state did not come to Baghdad , particularly those from Gulf Sunni states which are suspicious of ties between the Maliki government and Shia Iran . 
Others may have been deterred by the country 's precarious security situation . 
Two mortars landing not far from the conference center , just as the summit began , will not have calmed any nerves . 
The main topic on the agenda here was the crisis in Syria . 
In the presence of the United Nations Secretary-General , Ban Ki-moon , delegates formally supported a UN plan to end the fighting . 
But there are deep divisions in the Arab world over how to deal with Syria . 
As the delegates departed another lavish if inconclusive Arab League summit they acknowledged the situation in Syria could take a long time to resolve '' Some Gulf states have advocated tough action against the government in Damascus , whereas Syria 's neighbors , Lebanon and Iraq , are anxious at what might happen if the regime of Bashar al-Assad falls . 
So they used the Baghdad summit to urge caution and said there should be no outside intervention in Syria . 
But even as the delegates spoke , unverifiable pictures emerged on YouTube of mortar shells smashing into Homs - a town being blasted into submission . 
President Assad is said to have accepted the international plan . 
But as more testimony emerged from Aleppo , where protesters came under fire , the regime 's opponents said that Mr Assad was not interested in dialogue - until they had been routed . 
If anything , the situation in Syria is getting worse - the UN estimates more than 9,000 people have been killed but the army continues its offensive . 
As the delegates departed another lavish if inconclusive Arab League Summit , they acknowledged the situation in Syria could take a long time to resolve . 
If the so-called Annan plan was not observed by the Assad government , said officials here in Baghdad , it would be a matter for the UN Security Council , not the Arab League . 
Tonight as some degree of normality returned to Baghdad - even though there is still a considerable military presence - the Iraqi government declared the summit a resounding success . 
Notwithstanding the absence of so many key regional players and the failure to fully address the main crisis affecting the region . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Annan demands Syrian government begins ceasefire ` now ' Activists said at least 20 people were killed in clashes across Syria on Thursday Mr Annan 's spokesman , Ahmed Fawzi , told reporters : `` The deadline is now . '' 
The peace plan , which the government accepted on Tuesday , calls for a UN-supervised cessation of armed violence in all its forms by all parties . 
But activists say government forces have been shelling the central city of Homs and fighting armed rebels in the eastern province of Deir al-Zour . 
Five people were killed as clashes erupted in the town of Quriya , not far from the border with Iraq , when troops opened fire on a protest , according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights . 
Earlier , two people were reportedly killed by government snipers in Homs and the city of Idlib , and two others were shot dead as they drove through a rural part of Homs province . 
The Local Co-ordination Committees , an activist network , said 37 people had been killed nationwide , including four children and two women . 
Mr Fawzi said there clearly not been a `` cessation of hostilities on the ground '' in Syria this week despite the government 's acceptance of Mr Annan 's peace plan , which has the backing of the UN Security Council . 
`` This is our great concern , '' he told a news conference in Geneva . 
`` We expect -LRB- President Bashar al-Assad -RRB- to implement this plan immediately . '' 
Syrian-led political process to address the aspirations and concerns of the Syrian people 2 . 
UN-supervised cessation of armed violence in all its forms by all parties to protect civilians 3 . 
All parties to ensure provision of humanitarian assistance to all areas affected by the fighting , and implement a daily two-hour humanitarian pause 4 . 
Authorities to intensify the pace and scale of release of arbitrarily detained persons 5 . 
Authorities to ensure freedom of movement throughout the country for journalists 6 . 
Authorities to respect freedom of association and the right to demonstrate peacefully In addition to a ceasefire , it calls for the withdrawal of soldiers and heavy weapons from cities , the release of prisoners , delivery of humanitarian aid to those who need it and free movement for journalists . 
Mr Annan wanted the government to implement the ceasefire first , but also rebels to `` lay down their arms and start talking '' , Mr Fawzi added . 
`` If you read the agreement ... it specifically asks the government to withdraw its troops , to cease using heavy weapons in populated centres . 
`` The very clear implication here is that the government must stop first and then discuss a cessation of hostilities with the other side and with the mediator . 
`` The rationale is very simple . 
We are appealing to the stronger party to make a gesture of good faith and stop the killing . 
We are certain that if that happens , the opposition will follow suit . '' 
He also said Mr Annan planned to visit Tehran and Riyadh to build support for the peace plan , but did not say when . 
Meanwhile US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is in Saudi Arabia for talks on the Syrian crisis . 
The US Treasury also announced it was imposing a travel ban and asset freeze on another three senior Syrian officials - Defense Minister Dawoud Rajiha , Deputy Army Chief-of-Staff Munir Adanov and Zuhair Shalish , also known as Dhu al-Himma Shalish , the head of presidential security . 
On Thursday , Arab leaders meeting in Baghdad called for Mr Annan 's peace plan to be implemented immediately and completely . 
`` The solution for the crisis is still in the hands of the Syrians as a government and opposition , '' Arab League Secretary General Nabil al-Arabi told the summit in the Iraqi capital . 
Mr Arabi also called on the Security Council to issue a binding resolution to `` not only stipulate the necessity of stopping the violence , but also finding a suitable mechanism to cease fire '' . 
President Assad , who was not invited , said he accepted Mr Annan 's initiative , but it was `` necessary to obtain commitments from other parties to halt the terrorist acts by the armed groups and to withdraw the weapons of these groups and call on them to stop their terrorist acts '' . 
Countries which `` support the armed groups with money and weapons must be persuaded to stop this immediately '' , he added . 
Meanwhile , the UK announced an extra # 500,000 -LRB- $ 800,000 -RRB- of support for Syrian opposition groups both inside and outside the country . 
Foreign Secretary William Hague said the money would provide `` non-lethal '' aid to political opponents of President Assad , including to help activists co-ordinate protests and gather evidence of atrocities . 
He urged Mr Assad to accept he had no hope of political survival . 
The media rights body , Reporters Without Borders , condemned the killing of two journalists who it said were shot dead after an attack by Syrian forces on a group of people trying to enter Syria from Turkey on Monday . 
It named the victims as Walid Blidi , a British national of Algerian origin , and Nassim Terreri , whose nationality has yet to be established . 
A third journalist was wounded in the attack and is in a hospital in Antakya . 
The UN says at least 9,000 people have been killed since pro-democracy protests erupted last March . 
The government says about 3,000 members of the security forces have died combating `` armed terrorist gangs '' . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Istanbul summit tries to increase pressure on Syria The UK Foreign Secretary spoke of plans for `` a managed transition , a political transition '' in Syria However key players remained absent , including Russia , China and Iran . 
Damascus dubbed the summit the `` enemies of Syria '' and has declared its victory over rebel fighters . 
Syria has in principle agreed to the six-point peace plan proposed by UN-Arab League envoy Kofi Annan . 
However , many of those at the summit appeared sceptical it would implement it . 
US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said : `` Nearly a week has gone by , and we have to conclude that the regime is adding to its long list of broken promises . '' 
Opening the summit , Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said : `` The Syrian regime should not be allowed at any cost to manipulate this plan to gain time . '' 
Jim Muir BBC News , Beirut The Istanbul meeting faces a mass of dilemmas , contradictions and complexities , with no clear way forward . 
Western leaders talk of the need to step up pressure on the regime and support the opposition . 
But they have no intention of intervening militarily in any way , or even backing the rebels with weaponry . 
The opposition is divided , and many of its fighters on the ground have been crushed by a ruthless crackdown . 
It is under pressure to accept the peace plan of Kofi Annan . 
The rebels know that in any talks , the balance of power will be heavily against them . 
So there 's little reason to hope for a swift end to the violence other than on the regime 's terms . 
It clearly believes it has little to fear from the Istanbul gathering . 
But the BBC 's Jim Muir , in Beirut , says the Syrian government feels confident that it has little to fear from the Istanbul gathering - state television carried parts of the opening speeches from the conference live , dubbing it the `` enemies of Syria '' meeting . 
Mrs Clinton called for a unified response on renewed action against Damascus should it fail to implement the Annan plan , saying `` we can not sit back and wait any longer '' . 
However , there remain a number of issues on which there appears little unity . 
A call by Burhan Ghalioun , leader of the main opposition Syrian National Council -LRB- SNC -RRB- , for `` security corridors '' inside Syria to allow the delivery of aid to civilians has so far not been heeded . 
There is also serious division over arming the rebels . 
Qatar and Saudi Arabia have argued strongly for such support , but most of those at the summit remain opposed . 
They fear a flood of weapons could fuel a sectarian civil war . 
Mr Ghalioun has also pressed for the SNC to be recognized as `` the sole legitimate representative of the Syrian people '' . 
But French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said the conference had agreed to recognize it as the `` main point of contact '' . 
Mr Juppe added that a deadline must be set for Syria to implement the Annan plan . 
The head of the Arab League , Nabil al-Arabi , told the summit it should `` simultaneously call on the Security Council to take a binding decision ... to stop the violence in Syria '' . 
Mrs Clinton and Mr Erdogan are both sceptical about Syria 's intentions on the Annan plan However , Russia and China have balked at Security Council resolutions and were pointedly absent in Istanbul . 
Iraq is attending , although it had earlier suggested it might not . 
However , on Sunday Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki said he opposed arming the opposition and believed the Syrian government would survive . 
He said : `` It has been one year and the regime did not fall , and it will not fall , and why should it fall ? '' 
The Syrian government says it is close to ending the uprising . 
Syrian foreign ministry spokesman Jihad al-Makdissi told Syrian TV `` the battle to topple the state is over '' . 
Violence continued on Sunday , with more than 10 people reported killed , a day after more than 60 people died across the country . 
Our correspondent says that in the latest violence , activists reported attacks by security forces in areas near the Iraqi border to the east , and the Jordanian frontier to the south . 
The UN believes at least 9,000 people have died in the year-long revolt against Mr Assad 's rule . 
The Syrian government has been trying to suppress an uprising inspired by events in Tunisia , Egypt and Libya . 
The UN says thousands have been killed in the crackdown , and that many more have been detained and displaced . 
The Syrian government says hundreds of security forces personnel have also died combating `` armed terrorist gangs '' . 
The family of President Bashar al-Assad has been in power since his father , Hafez , took over in a coup in 1970 . 
The country underwent some liberalisation after Bashar became president in 2000 , but the pace of change soon slowed , if not reversed . 
Critics are imprisoned , domestic media are tightly controlled , and economic policies often benefit the elite . 
The country 's human rights record is among the worst in the world . 
Syria is a country of 21 million people with a Sunni Muslim majority -LRB- 74 % -RRB- and significant minorities of Alawites - the Shia heterodox sect to which Mr Assad belongs - and Christians . 
Mr Assad promotes a secular identity for the country , but he has concentrated power in the hands of family and other Alawites . 
Protests have generally been biggest in Sunni-dominated areas . 
Under the sanctions imposed by the Arab League , US and EU , Syria 's two most vital sectors , tourism and oil , have ground to a halt in recent months . 
The IMF says Syria 's economy contracted by 2 % in 2011 , while the value of the Syrian pound has crashed . 
Unemployment is high , electricity cuts trouble Damascus , and critical products like heating oil and staples like milk powder are becoming scarce . 
Pro-democracy protests erupted in March 2011 after the arrest and torture of a group of teenagers who had painted revolutionary slogans on walls at their school in the southern city of Deraa . 
Security forces opened fire during a march against the arrests , killing four . 
The next day , the authorities shot at mourners at the victims ' funerals , killing another person . 
People began demanding the overthrow of Mr Assad . 
The government has tried to deal with the situation with a combination of minor concessions and force . 
President Assad ended the 48-year-long state of emergency and introduced a new constitution offering multi-party elections . 
But at the same time , the authorities have continued to use violence against unarmed protesters , and some cities , like Homs , have suffered weeks of intense bombardment . 
The opposition is deeply divided . 
Several groups formed a coalition , the Syrian National Council -LRB- SNC -RRB- , but it is dominated by the Sunni community and exiled dissidents . 
The SNC disagrees with the National Co-ordination Committee -LRB- NCC -RRB- on the questions of talks with the government and foreign intervention , and has found it difficult to work with the Free Syrian Army - army defectors seeking to topple Mr Assad by force . 
International pressure on the Syrian government has been intensifying . 
It has been suspended from the Arab League , while the EU and the US have imposed sanctions . 
However , there has been no agreement on a UN Security Council resolution calling for an end to violence . 
Although military intervention has been ruled out by Western nations , there are increasing calls to arm the opposition . 
Correspondents say a peaceful solution seems unlikely . 
Syria 's leadership seems intent on crushing resistance and most of the opposition will only accept an end to the regime . 
Some believe the expected collapse of Syria 's currency and an inability to pay salaries may be the leadership 's downfall . 
There are fears , though , that the resulting chaos would be long-lasting and create a wider conflict . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton was among the attendees Middle Eastern and Turkish media express a variety of views on the outcome of the weekend meeting of countries backing political change in Syria , with some hailing it as a success and others expressing disappointment . 
A writer in a Qatari paper says that the recognition of the opposition Syrian National Council as the legitimate representative of the Syrian people at the gathering '' means the beginning of the end of the Syrian regime '' . 
However , a Turkish commentator says the ` Friends of the Syrian People summit in Istanbul disappointed anyone who had hoped it would lead to the creation of a humanitarian aid corridor . 
Papers in Syria dismissed the event as a gathering of Syrian enemies . 
The regime is very mistaken if it continues to disregard the will of the international community ... as the consensus to support the demands of the Syrian people that was agreed upon at the Istanbul conference and the recognition of the National Council as the legitimate representative of the Syrian people , means the beginning of the end of the Syrian regime . 
Tariq al-Hamid in the pan-Arab Al-Sharq al-Awsat The Friends of Syria conference yesterday can be considered a starting point to respond to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and his soldiers ' crimes . 
The conference also gave a clear message that Assad 's departure is inevitable . 
Yusuf al-Kuwaylit in Saudi Arabia 's Saudi Al-Riyadh The least that was expected from the gathering was the international recognition of the Syrian National Council , the expulsion of ambassadors , economic sanctions and arming of the opposition . 
These are legitimate demands in light of the continuation of the killings . 
Asli Aydintasbas in Turkey 's Milliyet Those in the opposition who want a buffer zone or a humanitarian aid corridor did not get what they hoped for . 
The most important outcome of the Istanbul summit was the support given to former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan 's diplomatic initiative . 
Editorial in the United Arab Emirates ' The National The meeting recognized the Syrian National Council as the `` legitimate representative '' of the opposition . 
The label only partially masks the fact that opposition divisions are deepening , rival factions are splintering and no single `` opposition '' speaks for the Syrian people . 
By propping up one group without pressuring it to include other forces , the international community may , unwittingly , be deepening Syria 's crisis . 
Abd-al-Ila Bilkiziz in United Arab Emirates ' Al-Khalij It seems the internal opposition has the political courage to initiate a program for a political settlement and national reconciliation and block the road to civil war , while the external leadership continues with calls for foreign intervention and armed intifadah . 
Abdulhamit Bilici in Turkey 's Zaman While it took things further than the previous meeting in Tunisia , decisions to end the bloodshed did not come out of the Istanbul Summit either . 
Ziyad Ghusn in Syria 's Tishrin As expected , yesterday 's gathering in Istanbul yielded nothing but hatred and conspiracy against the Syrian people who will once again confront them and defeat them . 
BBC Monitoring selects and translates news from radio , television , press , news agencies and the internet from 150 countries in more than 70 languages . 
It is based in Caversham , UK , and has several bureaux abroad . 


The BBC 's Jonathan Head : Syrian refugees report `` relentless attacks '' Thousands of Syrian refugees have been fleeing into Turkey , officials there say , as UN chief Ban Ki-moon warns the crisis is escalating . 
More than 2,300 fled on Wednesday , by far the highest number in one day . 
Earlier , the UN called for the Syrian government to `` urgently '' implement an agreed ceasefire . 
The approach of the deadline for a ceasefire seems to have brought an intensification rather than reduction in violence . 
In the Jouret al-Shiyah quarter of Homs , shells or rockets were falling at a rate of four in 30 seconds . 
Activists accuse the government of trying to complete its crackdown come what may ; government officials say it is the rebel fighters who are exploiting the impending withdrawal of the military from towns and cities to improve their position . 
Activist groups say at least 60 people were killed in shelling or shooting by security forces on Thursday in various parts of the country , mainly the central city of Homs and Idlib province in the north-west . 
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad , who is fighting to crush a year-long uprising , agreed late last month to a UN-Arab League peace plan which sets a 10 April deadline for a ceasefire . 
10 April : Government must withdraw troops and heavy weapons such as tanks from towns , cities and villages Following 48 hours : Ceasefire to be implemented on the ground with the onus on the opposition to follow the government 's lead 06:00 local time on 12 April : All forms of violence must be stopped on all sides Next step : All parties to hold talks on a political solution A UN team has arrived in Damascus to negotiate the possibility of deploying UN monitors to oversee any ceasefire . 
The BBC 's Jim Muir , reporting from Beirut , says the real test of the commitment of both sides to the ceasefire will come on Tuesday , by which time the government has pledged to stop using heavy weapons and to pull troops and tanks out of population centres . 
If that happens , our correspondent says , the opposition side will be under strong pressure to follow suit and call off all armed attacks . 
A Turkish official told Reuters news agency that the refugees crossed near to the Turkish village of Bukulmez and that others were waiting on the other side of the border . 
The new arrivals were taken to a refugee camp in Reyhanli in 44 minibuses , he said . 
Syrian-led political process to address the aspirations and concerns of the Syrian people 2 . 
UN-supervised cessation of armed violence in all its forms by all parties to protect civilians 3 . 
All parties to ensure provision of humanitarian assistance to all areas affected by the fighting , and implement a daily two-hour humanitarian pause 4 . 
Authorities to intensify the pace and scale of release of arbitrarily detained persons 5 . 
Authorities to ensure freedom of movement throughout the country for journalists 6 . 
Authorities to respect freedom of association and the right to demonstrate peacefully More than 42,000 Syrians have fled the country since the beginning of the revolt , which the UN estimates has killed more than 9,000 people . 
The Syrian authorities say about 2,000 security personnel have also been killed . 
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on Thursday he did not trust President Assad to comply with the peace plan . 
`` He shoots people but pretends he is withdrawing troops . 
He is not withdrawing troops but he is duping the international community . '' 
Earlier , Mr Ban said the violence was claiming lives every day and appealed to Mr Assad `` to show vision and leadership '' . 
`` Cities , towns and villages have been turned into war zones . 
The sources of violence are proliferating , '' Mr Ban told the UN General Assembly . 
`` The human rights of the Syrian people continue to be violated Humanitarian needs are growing dramatically . '' 
UN and Arab League envoy Kofi Annan 's plan calls for Damascus to pull back troops and heavy weaponry by 10 April , and for a full ceasefire to take hold within another 48 hours . 
Mr Annan , the former head of the UN , said he expected a full ceasefire to take effect by 06:00 -LRB- 03:00 GMT -RRB- on 12 April . 
Kofi Annan : `` There is an urgent need to stop the killing '' But Syria 's UN ambassador said that the main threat to the ceasefire came from the armed opposition backed by Qatar , Saudi Arabia and Turkey . 
Bashar Jaafari demanded that Mr Annan obtain written guarantees from those countries that they were on board with the peace plan . 
He also said that while troops and heavy weapons would be withdrawn from cities under the plan , police would remain `` for the protection of the civilians '' . 
Mr Annan is expected to travel to Iran on 11 April , the day after the partial ceasefire is due , to try to win further regional support for his peace plan . 
The UN has requested that Mr Annan provide proposals for a mechanism to supervise the ceasefire to and update the Security Council on progress . 
Mr Annan said that if the ceasefire was successful a small mobile UN monitoring mission of some 200-250 observers could be brought into Syria . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


The BBC 's Jonathan Head : Syrian refugees report `` relentless attacks '' After speaking to the UN secretary general , Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said the refugee issue was becoming an `` international problem '' . 
Some 2,800 Syrians have crossed in 36 hours , with the total now near 24,000 . 
Troops and rebels were engaged in heavy fighting across Syria on Friday , just six days before the UN hopes a full ceasefire will come into effect . 
The UN estimates more than 9,000 people have died in the year-long uprising against the rule of President Bashar al-Assad . 
Mr Davutoglu said he had spoken to UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon early on Friday to express concern about the rate of refugees . 
Syrian-led political process to address the aspirations and concerns of the Syrian people 2 . 
UN-supervised cessation of armed violence in all its forms by all parties to protect civilians 3 . 
All parties to ensure provision of humanitarian assistance to all areas affected by the fighting , and implement a daily two-hour humanitarian pause 4 . 
Authorities to intensify the pace and scale of release of arbitrarily detained persons 5 . 
Authorities to ensure freedom of movement throughout the country for journalists 6 . 
Authorities to respect freedom of association and the right to demonstrate peacefully In later televised remarks , Mr Davutoglu said : `` We have spared no efforts to accommodate Syrians fleeing the violence back home , but if they continue to arrive at this rate , we will need the UN and international community to step in . '' 
The UN and Arab League envoy Kofi Annan has set out a six-point peace plan that Syria has accepted , part of which envisages a UN-supervised cessation of armed violence by all parties from 10 April , with a full ceasefire on 12 April . 
However , the US and many regional countries have expressed scepticism that Syria is committed to the plan . 
Mr Davutoglu said the rate of refugees had doubled since Mr Assad agreed to implementing Mr Annan 's plan . 
`` Those who are giving -LRB- Mr Assad -RRB- time should also know that the number of fleeing Syrians is increasing and this is turning into an international problem , '' Mr Davutoglu said . 
There appears to be no halt in the violence in Syria . 
On Friday , the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights and Local Coordination Committees groups monitored reports from many parts of the country , including : Shelling , including tank fire , in Douma , near Damascus . 
Shelling in Zabadani , north-west of the capital Rebel fighters confront tanks trying to enter Rastan , north of Homs Protests after Friday prayers in the eastern province of Hasakeh , in the town of Qamishli in the northern Kurdish region and in the eastern city of Deir Ezzor . 
Snipers on roofs in Damascus and Hama Heavy fighting in central Homs province - in the villages of al-Tiba , al-Qabu and Shniyeh Fighting between soldiers and army deserters in Dmeir , 40km -LRB- 25 miles -RRB- north of Damascus International media can not report freely in Syria and it is impossible to verify reports of violence . 
The Syrian government says 2,000 security personnel have been killed in the uprising and blames the violence on `` armed gangs '' and `` terrorists '' . 
10 April : Government must withdraw troops and heavy weapons such as tanks from towns , cities and villages Following 48 hours : Ceasefire to be implemented on the ground with the onus on the opposition to follow the government 's lead 06:00 local time on 12 April : All forms of violence must be stopped on all sides Next step : All parties to hold talks on a political solution The BBC 's Jim Muir in Beirut says that in Homs - much of which is a real battlefield - and some other areas , especially Idlib province , the approach of the deadline to halt all violence seems to have brought an escalation rather than a reduction . 
He says activists are accusing the government of trying to complete its crackdown come what may ; but government officials say it is the rebel fighters who are exploiting the impending withdrawal of the military from towns and cities . 
Syria 's official Sana news agency said on Friday that Damascus had sent a message to the UN saying that `` terrorist acts committed by the armed terrorist groups in Syria have increased during the last few days '' and demanding a written commitment that the opposition would not try to make territorial gains . 
A UN team is currently in Damascus to negotiate the possibility of deploying UN monitors to oversee any ceasefire . 
Mr Annan has said that if the truce is successful a small mobile UN monitoring mission of some 200-250 observers could be brought into Syria . 
Mr Annan is also expected to travel to Iran on 11 April , the day after the partial ceasefire is due , to try to win further regional support for his peace plan . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


The unrest began in the southern city of Deraa in March The Syrian authorities have responded to anti-government protests with overwhelming military force since they erupted in March 2011 . 
The protests pose the greatest challenge to four decades of Assad family rule in the country . 
Here is an overview of the uprising , in which the UN says more than 9,000 people have been killed by security forces and at least 14,000 others detained . 
In February , the government put the death toll at 3,838 - 2,493 civilians and 1,345 security forces personnel . 
How did the protests start ? 
The unrest began in the southern city of Deraa in March when locals gathered to demand the release of 14 school children who were arrested and reportedly tortured after writing on a wall the well-known slogan of the popular uprisings in Tunisia and Egypt : `` The people want the downfall of the regime . '' 
The protesters also called for democracy and greater freedom , though not President Assad 's resignation . 
The peaceful show of dissent was , however , too much for the government and when people marched though the city after Friday prayers on 18 March , security forces opened fire , killing four people . 
The following day , they shot at mourners at the victims ' funerals , killing another person . 
Within days , the unrest in Deraa had spiralled out of the control of the local authorities . 
In late March , the army 's fourth armored division - commanded by the president 's brother , Maher - was sent in to crush the emboldened protesters . 
Dozens of people were killed , as tanks shelled residential areas and troops stormed homes , rounding up those believed to have attended demonstrations . 
But the crackdown failed to stop the unrest in Deraa , instead triggering anti-government protests in other towns and cities across the country , including Baniyas , Homs , Hama and the suburbs of Damascus . 
The army subsequently besieged them , blaming `` armed gangs and terrorists '' for the unrest . 
By mid-May , the death toll had reached 1,000 . 
What do the protesters want and what have they got ? 
Protesters began somewhat cautiously by calling for democracy and greater freedom in what is one of the most repressive countries in the Arab world . 
But once security forces opened fire on peaceful demonstrations , people demanded that Mr Assad resign . 
The president has resolutely refused to step down , but in the few public statements he has made since March he has offered some concessions and promised reform . 
The 48-year-long state of emergency was ended in April 2011 , while a new constitution offering multi-party elections was approved in a referendum in February 2012 . 
But activists say that - as long as people continue to be killed - Mr Assad 's promises count for very little . 
Mr Assad has made clear that he has no intention to step down End to the 48-year-old emergency law He revoked the emergency law on 21 April 2011 , but Syrian forces continued to open fire on demonstrations and detain people without arrest warrants Immediate end to extrajudicial killings and torture The president has rejected as `` false '' allegations made by the UN that Syrian security forces have committed crimes against humanity , including killings , torture , rape , imprisonment , and other forms of severe deprivation of liberty and disappearances Release of political prisoners and detained protesters Amnesties were offered to political prisoners in May 2011 , June 2011 and January 2012 . 
Officials say thousands were released , but as many as 37,000 are still in prison , according to human rights activists Transition to a democratic , free and pluralistic society On 26 February 2012 , voters approved in a referendum a new constitution , which sees the inclusion of political parties beyond the ruling Baath Party , and drops an article making the party the `` leader of state and society '' . 
It also limits the president to two seven-year terms . 
Mr Assad has also decreed on 14 March that parliamentary elections will be held on 7 May . 
The opposition has dismissed both the constitution and the elections Is there an organised opposition ? 
The Syrian authorities have long restricted the activities of disparate opposition parties and activists , and they played a minor role at the start of the uprising . 
However , as the protests spread across the country and the government crackdown intensified , opposition groups publicly declared their support for the protesters ' demands and in October several announced the formation of a united front , the Syrian National Council -LRB- SNC -RRB- . 
SNC chairman Burhan Ghalioun wants to unite groups seeking peaceful change in Syria Led by the Paris-based dissident Burhan Ghalioun and including the Muslim Brotherhood , it aims to provide `` the necessary support for the revolution to progress and realize the aspirations of our people for the overthrow of the regime , its symbols and its head '' . 
It hopes to offer a credible alternative to President Assad 's government and serve as a single point of contact for the international community . 
The SNC , which is dominated by Syria 's majority Sunni Muslim community , has struggled to win over Christians and members of President Assad 's Alawite sect , who each make up about 10 % of the population and have so far stayed loyal to the government . 
The council 's primacy has also been challenged by the National Co-ordination Committee -LRB- NCC -RRB- , an opposition bloc that still functions within Syria and is led by longstanding dissidents , some of whom are wary of the Islamists within the SNC . 
Several members of the SNC have also complained about its ineffectual leadership . 
The disunity has frustrated the international community , so at the end of March 2012 all the main groups , with the exception of the NCC , put aside their differences and agreed that the SNC would be the `` formal interlocutor and formal representative of the Syrian people '' . 
They were also united in their scepticism at the peace plan presented by the UN and Arab League envoy , Kofi Annan . 
The opposition has also found it difficult to work with the Free Syrian Army -LRB- FSA -RRB- , a group of army defectors which is seeking to topple Mr Assad by force . 
Based in Turkey , its fighters have launched increasingly deadly and audacious attacks on security forces in the north-western province of Idlib , around the central cities of Homs and Hama , and even on the outskirts of Damascus . 
The opposition has also found it difficult to work with the Free Syrian Army , a group of army defectors In January 2012 , residents of Zabadani , a mountain town 40km -LRB- 25 miles -RRB- north-west of the capital , said it had been `` liberated '' by FSA fighters . 
Days later , defectors seized control of Douma , a suburb 10km -LRB- six miles -RRB- from Damascus , for a few hours . 
But in February 2012 , government forces launched an offensive on FSA strongholds in Homs . 
FSA fighters staged a `` tactical withdrawal '' on 1 March , after a nearly a month of intense bombardment in which an estimated 700 people were killed . 
Two weeks later , troops took control of the northern city of Idlib from the FSA after four days of fighting , activists said . 
The FSA 's leader , Riyad al-Asaad , claims to have 15,000 men under his command , though analysts believe there may be no more than 7,000 . 
They are also still poorly armed , and many have only basic training . 
The FSA agreed in March 2012 to abide by the terms of Kofi Annan 's peace plan , which demanded a ceasefire by all parties on 10 April . 
But after the Syrian foreign ministry announced on 8 April that the army would not withdraw troops and tanks from populated areas until `` armed terrorist groups '' had presented written guarantees of a `` halt to all violence '' , the FSA cast doubt on the initiative . 
Col Asaad said that while the rebels were `` committed '' , they did not recognize the Assad government `` and for that reason we will not give guarantees '' . 
What is the international community doing ? 
Syria is a major player in the Middle East . 
Any chaos here could cause knock-on effects in countries such as Lebanon and Israel , where it can mobilise powerful proxy groups , such as the militant Hezbollah and Hamas movements . 
It also has close ties with Shia power Iran - an arch-foe of the US , Israel and Saudi Arabia - which could potentially draw those powers into a dangerous Middle Eastern conflict . 
The Arab League observer mission in Syria failed to halt the crackdown on dissent The Arab League initially remained silent on the issue of Syria - although it backed the Nato-led bombing campaign against Libya 's Col Muammar Gaddafi in a bid to protect civilians there . 
The 22-member group called for an end to the violence , but cited hesitation over any action because of `` strategic and political considerations '' . 
But in November 2011 , member states led by Qatar and Saudi Arabia surprised observers by voting to suspend Syria in an effort to force President Assad to end the crackdown . 
The League later imposed economic sanctions when the Syrian government hesitated over allowing the deployment of an observer mission to verify its implementation of a peace initiative , which demanded the withdrawal of troops and tanks from the streets . 
Damascus eventually allowed in the observers in December 2011 , but they failed to halt the crackdown on dissent . 
In late January 2012 , the Arab League laid out an ambitious plan of political reform , which called on President Assad to delegate power to a vice-president , to engage in proper dialogue with the opposition within two weeks , and form a government of national unity in two months . 
The League said this should eventually lead to multi-party elections overseen by international observers . 
A week later , following a dramatic increase in violence , the League suspended its observer mission . 
The League sought the support of the UN Security Council for its Syrian reform plan , rejected by Damascus on the grounds that it would infringe on national sovereignty . 
But a UN resolution supporting the plan was vetoed by Russia , which has significant economic and military ties with Syria , and by China . 
It was their second veto on Security Council action . 
Moscow has expressed concern that it would pave the way for military intervention . 
The UN and Arab League dispatched a special envoy , Kofi Annan , to Syria in March In March 2012 , after a nearly month-long bombardment of Homs by government forces that left an estimated 700 people dead and outraged many in the international community , the UN and Arab League dispatched a special envoy , former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan , to Syria . 
He proposed to President Assad a six-point peace plan that called for a UN-supervised ceasefire by all parties , a political process to address the `` aspirations '' of the Syrian people , the release of detainees , delivery of aid , free movement for journalists , and the right to protest . 
On 27 March 2012 , Mr Annan said the Syrian government had agreed to accept the peace plan . 
Six days later , he told the UN Security Council that President Assad had committed to withdraw his security forces from populated areas by 10 April , with a general ceasefire within 48 hours contingent on that withdrawal . 
Though deeply sceptical , Western and Arab nations gave their backing to the initiative , while the opposition warned that it was likely a tactic by the Syrian government to prolong the crackdown on dissent . 
As the ceasefire deadline approached , the violence continued unabated , with hundreds of people being killed in army assaults on opposition strongholds and clashes with rebels . 
Then on 8 April , the Syrian foreign ministry announced that the army would not withdraw until `` armed terrorist groups '' had presented written guarantees of a `` halt to all violence '' . 
The rebel Free Syrian Army rejected the demand , saying its fighters did not recognize the government and would `` not give guarantees '' to lay down their arms . 
Is this a sectarian conflict ? 
Syria is a country of 21 million people with a large Sunni majority -LRB- 74 % -RRB- and significant minorities -LRB- 10 % each -RRB- of Christians and Alawites - the Shia sect to which Mr Assad belongs . 
For years , Mr Assad has promoted a secular identity for the Syrian state , hoping to unify diverse communities in a region where sectarian conflict is rife - as seen in neighbouring Lebanon and Iraq . 
The regime can still mobilise support , especially from minority groups and the upper classes However , he also concentrated power in the hands of his family and members of the Alawite community , who wield a disproportionate power in the Syrian government , military and business elite . 
Claims of corruption and nepotism have been rife among the excluded Sunni majority . 
And protests have generally been biggest in Sunni-dominated rural areas , towns and cities , as opposed to mixed areas . 
Opposition figures have stressed that they seek a `` multi-national , multi-ethnic and religiously tolerant society '' . 
But there are fears of chaos and instability - even talk of civil war - if Mr Assad should fall . 
Activists say these fears are overblown . 
What is the economic fallout of the unrest in Syria ? 
Major ethnic groups : Arabs -LRB- 90 % -RRB- , Kurds -LRB- 9 % -RRB- , Armenians , Circassians , Turkomans In June 2011 , President Assad warned Syrians that `` the most dangerous thing '' facing their country was `` the weakness or collapse '' of its economy . 
Even before the unrest , Syrians had endured decades of high unemployment , widespread poverty and rising food prices . 
Now , business , farming and trade have been hard hit by economic sanctions imposed by the Arab League , the European Union , the United States and neighbouring Turkey . 
Syria 's two most vital sectors - tourism and oil - have ground to a halt . 
The IMF says Syria 's economy contracted by 2 % in 2011 , while the value of the Syrian pound has crashed to its lowest level in black-market trading . 
Even on the official exchange rates , the Syrian pound has plummeted by more than 60 % against the dollar . 
Inflation is also increasing rapidly , with the official rate up to 11 % in March 2012 . 
Unemployment is estimated to have risen to more than 20 % since the uprising began . 
In February 2012 , the government doubled customs duties , which analysts said would lead to smuggling and price rises . 
Towns and cities , including the capital Damascus , are suffering electricity cuts , and critical products like heating oil and staples like milk powder are scarce . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Turkey protests as Syrians open fire at border Jim Muir , reporting from Beirut , says there is little prospect of the ceasefire `` gaining hold '' Turkey has protested after Syrian forces opened fire across the border , in the first such attack since Turkey began housing refugees from the unrest . 
Ankara summoned Syria 's envoy after two incidents in which violence spilled over into Turkey , leaving at least two people dead and many injured . 
Separately , a Lebanese cameraman was shot dead on the Syria-Lebanon border . 
The violence comes amid fading hopes that a UN-brokered Syria ceasefire will start on Tuesday as planned . 
Monday has proved to be one of the bloodiest days of the uprising despite the truce deal , which should be marked by troop withdrawals from towns and cities if it is being implemented . 
Activists reported more than 100 deaths - among them at least 30 civilians who died during Syrian army bombardment in the central province of Hama . 
Harrowing scenes were reported in the town of al-Latmana , where 17 women and eight children were said to have been crushed under the rubble of their homes in the second attack on the area in days . 
The deaths come as a report by Human Rights Watch accused Syrian forces of carrying out more than 100 summary executions since March . 
The report says most of the victims were civilians . 
Jim Muir BBC News , Beirut Turkey is furious at the latest violence spilling over the border from Syria . 
These are serious incidents which will exacerbate already high political tensions between Turkey and Syria . 
Turkey 's Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan is already very concerned about the conduct of the counter-insurgency in Syria . 
He has strongly insisted on changes by the Syrian government and is gravely disappointed with his former ally , President Bashar al-Assad . 
President Assad is facing growing pressure from Turkey for some kind of action , perhaps involving a protected buffer zone or corridor , inside Syria . 
It is all speculation at the moment , but this is the kind of thinking that could emerge the more we have these kinds of incidents and the more the peace process in Syria stumbles . 
In the first of the skirmishes on the Turkish border at least two people died after people crossing from Syria into Turkey at Kilis were shot at by the Syrian army . 
The governor of Kilis told the BBC that 18 people were also wounded . 
In the second incident two Syrian refugees and a Turkish translator were wounded inside a refugee camp after being hit by stray bullets from clashes between Syrian rebels and troops , according to Turkey 's foreign affairs ministry . 
Turkey summoned Syria 's envoy to demand an immediate halt to such violence . 
In a separate incident , a Lebanese cameraman for Lebanon 's Al-Jadeed television channel was shot dead amid gunfire in the border region between Syria and Lebanon 's northern Wadi Khaled district . 
Ali Shaaban was killed and a colleague injured when a film crew from Al-Jadeed came under a hail of bullets from troops on the Syrian side of the border . 
Lebanon 's prime minister condemned the killing of Mr Shaaban . 
The BBC 's Jonathan Head , on the Turkey-Syria border , says the Syrian army has been careful to keep away from the border but that seems to have broken down this time . 
He says incidents like this have inflamed emotions in Turkey and the Turkish government has almost given up on the ceasefire plan , brokered by UN-Arab League envoy Kofi Annan . 
Turkey has seen a sharp rise in the number of refugees coming over the border in the past week , and now hosts some 24,000 Syrians , including hundreds of army defectors . 
Mr Annan will briefly visit Syrian refugees on the Turkish border on Tuesday , reports say . 
However , there are now serious doubts about whether Mr Annan 's ceasefire plan will come into effect on its Tuesday deadline . 
10 April : Government must withdraw troops and heavy weapons such as tanks from towns , cities and villages Following 48 hours : Ceasefire to be implemented on the ground with the onus on the opposition to follow the government 's lead 06:00 local time on 12 April : All forms of violence must be stopped on all sides Next step : All parties to hold talks on a political solution After having earlier agreed to Mr Annan 's plan , Damascus on Sunday called for written guarantees from rebel fighters to end attacks and a promise from foreign states not to fund them . 
It said it did not want the rebels to exploit any troop withdrawal to reorganise and rearm themselves . 
The rebel Free Syrian Army said although it backed the UN-Arab League truce , it refused to meet the government 's new demands . 
Brazilian diplomat Paulo Pinheiro , who is chairing a UN inquiry into the Syrian conflict , said the demands made by Syria were almost `` impossible '' to meet . 
`` I think that everybody in the world is worried that at the eve of the deadline , the government of Syria - instead of preparing to retreat - has escalated the military offensive , '' Mr Pinheiro said . 
China on Monday called on the government and opposition in Syria to `` honor their commitment of ceasefire and withdrawal of troops '' . 
But correspondents say Russia , Syria 's main ally , may now have to play a crucial role . 
Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Muallem is in Moscow for talks . 
The UN says more than 9,000 people have been killed in the uprising against Mr Assad 's rule which began more than a year ago . 
The Syrian government says 2,000 security personnel have been killed in the uprising and blames the violence on `` armed gangs '' and `` terrorists '' . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria 's Foreign Minister Walid Muallem : `` We have withdrawn some military units '' Fresh clashes have broken out in Syria despite the passing of a UN-backed deadline for a complete withdrawal of government troops and weapons . 
Activists reported shelling in Homs and areas of northern Aleppo province , and unrest in the capital , Damascus . 
Rights groups said 11 people had been killed on Tuesday . 
Syria 's Foreign Minister Walid Muallem , in Russia for talks , said Damascus had taken steps to adhere to the plan by withdrawing some troops . 
He blamed `` armed gangs '' for the continuing violence . 
Under the peace plan - negotiated by the UN and Arab League 's special envoy on the Syrian crisis , Kofi Annan - Syrian troops were to have completed their withdrawal from population centres and stopped the use of heavy weaponry by Tuesday , ahead of a full ceasefire coming into place on Thursday . 
Damascus had agreed to the deadline , but on Sunday demanded written guarantees first that its opponents would give up arms , along with a promise from foreign states not to fund them . 
Jim Muir BBC News , Beirut Mr Muallem 's suggestion that a ceasefire should coincide with the arrival of international peace monitors is getting things completely out of the sequence envisaged by Kofi Annan . 
That called for the government to take the first step in pulling back its forces , and the opposition would follow suit in applying a ceasefire by Thursday morning . 
The observers would then come in to monitor an existing peace , not be part of the stabilisation process in terms of going into a combat situation and trying to calm it themselves . 
It indicates to me there is no clear way forward coming out of the meetings , unless there are things that have been decided behind the scenes . 
Everybody recognizes the Annan peace plan went as far as anybody could go in providing a balanced , peaceful political solution . 
If this does n't work its very hard to see how any other plan could . 
Speaking after talks with his Russian counterpart , Mr Muallem said army units had been withdrawn from some areas , a number of detainees released and agreement reached on getting humanitarian aid to those in need . 
But he said that `` despite all these positive measures we noticed on a daily basis the escalation of opposition by the armed terrorist gangs '' . 
Mr Muallem told the BBC Syria would only stop killing civilians `` when these groups stop killing '' . 
He said a ceasefire could only come into force once a team of international observers had arrived , but also accused Turkey of supplying militant groups with weapons and allowing them to cross its borders , AFP reports . 
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said the Syrian government `` could have been more active and decisive '' in implementing the plan , but that Mr Muallem had assured him Damascus was committed to it . 
Success rested on those countries with influence over the opposition groups putting pressure on them to abide by a ceasefire as well , he said . 
10 April : Government must withdraw troops and heavy weapons such as tanks from towns , cities and villages Following 48 hours : Ceasefire to be implemented on the ground with the onus on the opposition to follow the government 's lead 06:00 local time on 12 April : All forms of violence must be stopped on all sides Next step : All parties to hold talks on a political solution Russia is one of Syria 's closest allies and as a permanent member of the UN Security Council has vetoed resolutions condemning Damascus . 
France 's foreign ministry described Mr Muallem 's comments as `` a fresh expression of this blatant and unacceptable lie '' that Damascus was committed to the Annan plan and urged the international community to react against the `` feeling of impunity '' . 
The UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said six civilians were killed by fresh shelling in Homs on Tuesday and another was shot dead in the city . 
It said another four people were killed in Kfar Zeita in central Hama province , while military activity was also reported in Aleppo province . 
It may be too early to draw a definitive line under Kofi Annan 's peace plan for Syria , but it is not looking in terribly good health '' Mr Annan was visiting some of the Turkish camps on Tuesday . 
The visit comes a day after several people in one camp were injured by shots fired across the border from inside Syria . 
Two people were also shot dead as they approached the border from the Syrian side . 
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan , on a trip to China , said the incidents were a `` clear violation '' of its borders and that his country would `` take the necessary measures '' in response . 
Syrian-led political process to address the aspirations and concerns of the Syrian people 2 . 
UN-supervised cessation of armed violence in all its forms by all parties to protect civilians 3 . 
All parties to ensure provision of humanitarian assistance to all areas affected by the fighting , and implement a daily two-hour humanitarian pause 4 . 
Authorities to intensify the pace and scale of release of arbitrarily detained persons 5 . 
Authorities to ensure freedom of movement throughout the country for journalists 6 . 
Authorities to respect freedom of association and the right to demonstrate peacefully Turkey now hosts some 24,000 Syrians , including hundreds of army defectors , and has seen a sharp rise in the number of refugees coming over the border in the past week . 
Separately , Lebanon has condemned the killing of a Lebanese cameraman , Ali Shaaban , who was shot on Lebanon 's northern border with Syria . 
The UN says more than 9,000 people have been killed in the uprising against Mr Assad 's rule which began more than a year ago . 
In February , the Syrian government put the death toll at 3,838 - 2,493 civilians and 1,345 security forces personnel . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria ceasefire : UN plans to send observers ` in days ' Hillary Clinton : `` The regime 's troops and tanks have not pulled back from population centres '' A draft UN Security Council resolution has outlined plans to send monitors to Syria to oversee compliance with a UN and Arab League-backed peace plan . 
The draft , prepared by the US , is expected to be voted on at the Security Council on Friday , with a monitoring team arriving by early next week . 
A ceasefire at the core of the peace plan is largely holding . 
But at least three people were reportedly killed on Friday , as large protests were held in several places . 
One person was killed by security forces as anti-government demonstrators tried to reach the main square in the central city of Hama , activists said . 
Another was shot dead after Friday prayers in the town of Nawa , in the southern province of Deraa , while the third died in the town of Salqin , in the north-western province of Idlib , they added . 
Jim Muir BBC News , Beirut For the first time in months , thousands of people crammed the central square to stage a night-time demonstration in Deir al-Zour , a troubled city near the Iraqi border in the east . 
It was part protest , but part celebration - people seemed to feel that things have changed . 
That and many other factors will be tested as people come out of mosques all over the country after Friday prayers . 
Opposition leaders are looking for a big turnout as a show of strength . 
But there are fears about how the security forces may react , especially if there are any acts of provocation . 
The Local Co-ordination Committees -LRB- LCC -RRB- , an activist network , said shots were fired by security forces at several locations on Friday in a bid to disperse protests . 
A number of civilians were killed on Thursday , after the ceasefire came into effect at 06:00 -LRB- 03:00 GMT -RRB- , activists said , while the government said a bomb attack had killed one soldier . 
The BBC 's Jim Muir in Beirut says it could be some time before a full picture emerges , but that the impression is the breaches of the ceasefire have not been as serious as some had feared . 
A spokesman for UN and Arab League envoy , Kofi Annan , who drew up the peace plan , said it had been `` relatively respected '' , but that the envoy was `` aware that we do n't have a perfect situation '' in Syria . 
`` There are detainees that need to be released , humanitarian corridors need to be opened , '' said Ahmed Fawzi , although he noted that Syria had granted entry visas to 74 media organizations . 
The draft UN Security Council resolution calls on the Syrian government and opposition groups to comply with all aspects of Mr Annan 's peace plan , including troop withdrawals and an end to `` all armed violence in all its forms '' . 
Activist Mousab Hamdee on monitoring mission : `` We do n't want people to come and watch us dying '' It threatens unspecified `` further measures '' if the Syrian government `` does not implement its commitments '' . 
The team of 10 to 12 observers would monitor the ceasefire and check the Syrian military was withdrawing from population centres in accordance with the peace plan . 
Mr Fawzi said they were `` standing by to board planes and get themselves on the ground as soon as possible '' and would be followed by a larger mission of some 250 observers . 
Security Council diplomats - including those of Russia and China , who have vetoed previous resolutions - have all backed the idea of observers . 
The ceasefire formally came into effect on Thursday - both sides vowed to observe it , but reserved the right to respond if attacked . 
Mr Annan said Syria had not fully complied with the deal as it had yet to withdraw troops and heavy weaponry from towns and cities . 
Syrian-led political process to address the aspirations and concerns of the Syrian people 2 . 
UN-supervised cessation of armed violence in all its forms by all parties to protect civilians 3 . 
All parties to ensure provision of humanitarian assistance to all areas affected by the fighting , and implement a daily two-hour humanitarian pause 4 . 
Authorities to intensify the pace and scale of release of arbitrarily detained persons 5 . 
Authorities to ensure freedom of movement throughout the country for journalists 6 . 
Authorities to respect freedom of association and the right to demonstrate peacefully US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said the ceasefire was important but was just a first step . 
Humanitarian groups must have full access , she said , and Syrian President Bashar al-Assad would `` have to go '' , a step which is not included in the peace plan . 
Mrs Clinton said the US supported the deployment of an advance team immediately . 
But she said the group , as well as any full monitoring mission would `` need complete freedom of movement , unimpeded communications , and access throughout the country and to all Syrians , as well as firm security guarantees from all parties . '' 
French President Nicolas Sarkozy said on Friday that he did not `` believe in Bashar al-Assad 's sincerity , nor unfortunately in the ceasefire '' , and said the international community should `` assume its responsibilities and create humanitarian corridors so those unfortunates who are being massacred by a dictator can escape '' . 
The UN estimates that about 9,000 people have died since anti-government protests began in March 2011 . 
In February , the Syrian government put the death toll at 3,838 - 2,493 civilians and 1,345 security forces personnel . 
Are you in Syria ? 
Do you have friends or family there ? 
Send us your comments and experiences using the form below . 
At no time should you endanger yourself or others or take any unnecessary risks . 
Send your pictures and videos to yourpics@bbc.co.uk or text them to 61124 -LRB- UK -RRB- or +447624800100 -LRB- International -RRB- . 
If you have a large file you can upload here . 
If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on . 
In some cases a selection of your comments will be published , displaying your name as you provide it and location , unless you state otherwise . 
Your contact details will never be published . 
When sending us pictures , video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others , take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws . 
Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Jim Muir says there is little ceasefire left in Homs and Aleppo . 
This video has not been independently verified The UN Security Council has passed a resolution authorising the deployment of an advance team of monitors to Syria to oversee the ceasefire there . 
A small group of observers is expected to arrive in Syria on Sunday . 
The vote comes as a BBC reporter says the ceasefire appears to be in danger of collapsing in some parts of Syria . 
Activists said at least 20 people were killed as hostilities flared in the restive city of Homs and in a shooting at a funeral in Aleppo . 
UN resolution 2042 approves a team of up to 30 unarmed observers to deploy to Syria An initial group of six monitors will arrive in Syria on Sunday The rest of the advance team is set to follow later Once certain conditions are met , the UN will seek approval for an expanded force of about 250 observers Ban Ki-Moon has said he will set out concrete proposals by 18 April for this larger UN observer force The US ambassador to the UN , Susan Rice , condemned the bloodshed saying it raises `` renewed doubts about the sincerity of the -LRB- Syrian -RRB- regime 's commitment to the ceasefire '' . 
She said the resolution was an important opportunity to stop the bloodshed , adding that the burden was now on the Syrian regime . 
But Syria 's ambassador to the UN , Bashar Ja'afari , blamed opposition forces for the spike in violence , saying that more than 50 violations had taken place including `` many assassinations and sabotage operations '' . 
Syria 's opposition umbrella group , the Syrian National Council , welcomed the vote . 
Barbara Plett BBC UN correspondent This is the first time the Security Council has been able to adopt a legally binding resolution on the Syria crisis , which in itself is significant - it marks a narrowing of the differences in the international community that analysts say Damascus has exploited . 
But agreement even on this technical issue was hard won , and shows that divisions on the Council remain over the nature of the conflict . 
Western nations were able to keep the main emphasis on the regime 's responsibilities to meet its ceasefire commitments , but Russia insisted on also including the opposition 's obligations . 
And it was able to soften language on the conditions needed for the observers to operate effectively - the resolution now `` calls upon '' rather than `` requires '' the government to provide full freedom of movement and access . 
All of which suggests each step of Kofi Annan 's peace plan will be contested , not only on the ground but also in the Security Council . 
The resolution was passed unanimously after Russia approved a revised text , which authorised the deployment of a team of about 30 unarmed observers . 
Diplomats had revised a US-proposed draft on Friday to accommodate Russian objections . 
Russia 's ambassador said Moscow supported the resolution because of the need for a rapid deployment of observers . 
Indeed the UN has said that it intends to increase the deployment to 250 - but that is dependent on certain conditions and will require further approval . 
Meanwhile the BBC 's Jim Muir in Beirut , who has been monitoring developments in Syria , says that in parts of the country the ceasefire seems to be in danger of collapsing , unless something is done to shore it up . 
Saturday witnessed a surge in violence , with activists saying at least 20 people killed in several incidents around the country : In Homs activists said security forces pounded some quarters with tanks and rocket fire Violence was particularly acute in the Qarabis quarter of the city , where video from activists appeared to show immense destruction Several quarters of the city seemed to have a considerable presence of rebel fighters from the Free Syrian Army In Aleppo , in the north of the country , heavy casualties were reported from a shooting at the funeral of a protester Activists said security forces opened fire on mourners , but state television blamed armed rebels opening fire at random In Geneva , UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon welcomed the resolution and also announced that UN aid co-ordinator Valerie Amos would chair a humanitarian forum on Syria in Geneva on 20 April . 
British ambassador Mark Lyall Grant : '' Today 's resolution is absolutely clear about the commitments that the Syrian regime must now fulfil '' He said that about a million people had been displaced inside Syria over the past 13 months of fighting and added that many more had been forced to flee to neighbouring countries . 
Mr Annan , the envoy for the UN and Arab League , drew up the plan which called for an advance monitoring team to be deployed immediately to Syria to observe compliance with the truce . 
Mr Annan 's plan aims to end more than a year of violence in Syria which the UN says has killed more than 9,000 people , mostly civilians . 
The resolution passed on Saturday expresses an intention to establish a full mission once there is a sustained cessation of violence . 
It also puts the onus on the Syrian government to meet its ceasefire commitments . 
Syrian-led political process to address the aspirations and concerns of the Syrian people 2 . 
UN-supervised cessation of armed violence in all its forms by all parties to protect civilians 3 . 
All parties to ensure provision of humanitarian assistance to all areas affected by the fighting , and implement a daily two-hour humanitarian pause 4 . 
Authorities to intensify the pace and scale of release of arbitrarily detained persons 5 . 
Authorities to ensure freedom of movement throughout the country for journalists 6 . 
Authorities to respect freedom of association and the right to demonstrate peacefully The text `` calls upon all parties in Syria , including the opposition , immediately to cease all armed violence in all its forms . '' 
The BBC 's Barbara Plett at the United Nations in New York says that it provides important backing to Mr Annan 's peace plan . 
Significantly , it is the first time Security Council members have been able to overcome divisions and adopt a resolution on Syria , which is a diplomatic defeat for Damascus , she says . 
Analysts say Russia appears to have been key to persuading President Bashar al-Assad to accept both the Annan plan and the ceasefire . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 
14th April 2012 - 19:53 Russia and China and Iran have supported Assad and some sent weapons . 
They should be ashamed of themselves . 
They are responsible for so much suffering and killing and destruction . 
Does Russia and China and Iran think that killing 9000 people and destroying everything is better than the regime change in Libya ? 
Proper governments in 2012 do not kill their own people for protesting . 
14th April 2012 - 19:18 The power of any government surely rests with the rights of its citizens . 
When these citizens are subjected to violence on this scale , simply for protesting their ruling government 's policies , something must be done to protect their rights . 
There can be no excuses for what has happened in Syria . 
The UN must take a much firmer stance . 
Whilst caution is a virtue , it is now morally redundant . 
14th April 2012 - 18:48 Sadly , I think the odds of the ceasefire holding are little to none . 
Assad knows that his only method for retaining control in the rebelling areas is fear , and the rebels are probably a little too hopeful of Western intervention if it does n't work . 
It boils down to blood , power and revenge , and no rules have ever kept those in check . 
14th April 2012 - 18:44 the UN should send a large armed peacekeeping force in NOW . 
all of Assad 's forces should be disarmed then all the rebel forces should be disarmed then pave the way for elections -LRB- use force if thay need to -RRB- but as soon as all the heavy weapons are held by the UN then most of the govment forces would be powerless to stop the people doing what thay want 14th April 2012 - 17:59 The deployment of monitors is an imperative step . 
The Syrian government needs to be watched like an hawk . 
In the same breath , rebels should follow the conditions laid down by Kofi Annan . 
There are bound to be violations from both sides . 
The killing of civilians should stop . 
Impartial observers should report back to the Security Council . 
Concrete action should follow . 
All posts are reactively-moderated and must obey the house rules . 


Tough though it has been , getting agreement on the ceasefire in Syria is the easy bit compared with what comes next . 
The truce itself has been shaky , and has more or less completely collapsed in some areas , especially those , mainly Sunni , quarters of Homs such as Khaldieh where rebel fighters are still entrenched and where hostilities and bombardment have reached close to pre-truce levels . 
Just shoring up the ceasefire and preventing a major eruption of fighting across the board will in itself be a huge challenge . 
Even before the advance party of UN monitors began arriving on Sunday night , there were ominous signs . 
The government - through an `` authorised military source '' - said that `` terrorist armed groups '' had escalated the violence in a `` hysterical '' manner as soon as the Security Council passed its resolution on Saturday authorising the deployment of the first 30 truce observers . 
It said the security forces would take action to prevent further `` criminal attacks '' by the `` terrorist groups '' - in other words , the ceasefire could effectively be discarded wherever the authorities deemed fit . 
Opposition groups , including the Local Co-ordination Committees and the Muslim Brotherhood , called for a strict timetable for implementation of all six clauses of Kofi Annan 's peace plan , and warned that the opposition could not remain committed indefinitely to `` an empty truce '' if the regime continued violations and the wider process was not implemented . 
So , with many violations reported by both sides in many places apart from Homs , it is clear that the truce could collapse completely unless reinforced by implementation of the six-point Annan plan and the deployment of observers , whose presence , the UN hopes , may help deter or inhibit acts of violence . 
At this point , the key question could be : in whose interest is a ceasefire that holds on the basis of implementing all points of the Annan plan ? 
Syrian-led political process to address the aspirations and concerns of the Syrian people 2 . 
UN-supervised cessation of armed violence in all its forms by all parties to protect civilians 3 . 
All parties to ensure provision of humanitarian assistance to all areas affected by the fighting , and implement a daily two-hour humanitarian pause 4 . 
Authorities to intensify the pace and scale of release of arbitrarily detained persons 5 . 
Authorities to ensure freedom of movement throughout the country for journalists 6 . 
Authorities to respect freedom of association and the right to demonstrate peacefully The objective answer is that it is not to the regime 's advantage - indeed , it could prove fatal . 
But it would benefit the opposition , or at least those elements of it who want a peaceful settlement short of the violent overthrow of the regime , which is far from being a realistic possibility at present . 
One of the key provisions of the plan is the return to barracks of the armed forces , with their tanks and heavy weaponry - a withdrawal that was supposed to be completed by last Tuesday as the first step in the ceasefire process , before even the truce itself came into effect . 
It has n't happened , and for good reason . 
The regime is only maintaining its grip in many areas by military force . 
If that iron fist is relaxed , it risks losing control of a large proportion of the country , whether to armed rebel groups whose movements are hard to prevent , or simply to a defiant and dissenting populace in the many places where hearts and minds have long been lost . 
That could create a momentum which might carry through to the two big urban centres that have not yet been fully caught up in the revolt but where trouble has been on the rise , Damascus and Aleppo , with potentially fatal consequences for the regime . 
That is why the government , having initially accepted the Annan plan , suddenly baulked and came up with a new raft of conditions and demands , including that the rebels must agree to disarm , that the opposition must give written guarantees of compliance , and that outside states such as Saudi Arabia , Qatar and Turkey must also give formal pledges to stop backing the rebels . 
UN Security Council resolution 2042 approves a team of up to 30 unarmed observers An initial group of six monitors arrives in Syria The rest of the advance team is set to follow later Once certain conditions are met , the UN will seek Security Council approval for an expanded force of about 250 observers Ban Ki-moon will set out concrete proposals by 18 April for this larger UN observer force In other words , a complete capitulation by the opposition , which would then enter any settlement talks in an extremely weak position , with the regime more or less free to dictate terms . 
By contrast , a ceasefire in situ - as is theoretically in force right now - leaves rebel fighters in control in some parts of Homs and of Idlib province . 
Despite the ferocity of the crackdown unleashed in late January , the regime has not been able fully to restore its control over all areas by force . 
If the Annan plan is implemented in full , regime dominance of the balance of power would be redressed even more towards some kind of equilibrium with the opposition , so that talks would take place on some kind of level playing-field . 
There is much evidence that Russia is playing an absolutely crucial role in bringing about what regime compliance there has been so far . 
Moscow was instrumental in persuading Syria to accept the Annan plan in the first place , and then to drop the 11th-hour conditions it suddenly came up with . 
That shows clearly that , while it can resist Western pressures and sanctions indefinitely , Damascus has no option but to bend when the Russians - with China tagging along - insist something must be done . 
What is equally clear is that more pressure from Moscow will be needed if all clauses of the Annan plan are to be implemented , especially the withdrawal of troops , tanks and heavy weapons . 
The Russian role will clearly be equally crucial when , and if , it comes to dialogue between the regime and its opponents . 
In many ways , Moscow will be the arbiter . 
The alternative is stark : a return to the battlefield , with the regime trying to complete its control by force , and the opposition and its outside backers stepping up the arming and financing of rebel fighters , plunging the country into deep and prolonged chaos and a potential fragmentation that would have regional consequences . 
That would not be in the interest of Russia or the regime 's other outside allies , such as the Chinese and indeed Iran . 
They would risk losing their key Arab ally to an abrupt regime change pushed by regional and international rivals such as Saudi Arabia and the West . 
So Russia is strongly motivated , and uniquely placed , to help act as midwife to political transition in Syria . 
UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon : `` The whole world is watching with sceptical eyes '' What exactly Moscow has in mind as an endgame is not clear but will obviously be important . 
It could be something akin to the transition from the Soviet Union to the Russia of today . 
Or perhaps Moscow sees it as a question of holding the ring while the Syrians themselves hammer out some kind of formula that would accommodate both the opposition and those still substantial sections of Syrian society that may still see the regime as a better alternative than sectarian chaos . 
What is clear is that Russia does not buy into the idea that President Bashar al-Assad and his inner circle can simply crush dissent by force and implement `` democratic reforms '' that remain cosmetic and leave the core of the regime intact . 
Work also needs to be done on the other side of the equation . 
If a settlement is to have a chance , the opposition and its outside backers must be induced to give up their demand that Mr Assad must stand down as the first step in a transition process , and they must agree to talk to the regime . 
In that sense , the Annan plan provided a face-saving way out for the Americans and others who had adopted the regime-change demand without having the means to bring it about swiftly or cleanly . 
It also means that regional powers like Saudi Arabia and Qatar , who are engaged in a regime-to-regime vendetta with Damascus , would have to shelve their own ambitions , at least for the moment . 
A successful peaceful resolution in Syria will depend strongly on a continuation and strengthening of the international consensus and collaboration that allowed the Security Council finally to pass its first resolution on the Syria crisis on Saturday , covering the initial deployment of 30 observers . 
But negotiations on the country 's future remain a distant prospect as the smoke of war continues to hang over Homs and other places . 
The situation on the ground clearly must first be stabilised , at least relatively . 
A daily struggle can be expected over consolidating the ceasefire and implementing the Annan plan 's provisions . 
Nothing will come easy . 
The process involves a regime that is fighting for its survival and has shown it will stop at nothing to stay in power . 
So the chances are that pressure will have to be applied every step of the way . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria troops bombard Homs and other rebel areas Homs has been under almost continuous attack since the ceasefire began last Thursday Syrian security forces are carrying out deadly attacks on opposition-held areas in the north and south and continuing to bombard Homs , activists say . 
Some opposition groups report that more than 50 people have been killed over the course of the day . 
The violence came as envoy Kofi Annan traveled to Qatar to brief the Arab League on the peace plan he negotiated . 
A handful of United Nations observers have made their first field trip to the south of the country to visit Deraa . 
Earlier , the head of the advance team of UN observers admitted its ceasefire monitoring mission would be difficult . 
`` We need to move forward , little step by little step , '' Col Ahmed Himmiche of Morocco told reporters in the capital , Damascus . 
`` It is not easy and it will require co-ordination with all sides , firstly with the Syrian government and then with the other sides . 
It 's a difficult mission that needs co-ordination and planning , '' he added . 
Col Himmiche arrived on Sunday to prepare for a 30-strong mission approved by the UN Security Council to check the implementation of Mr Annan 's peace plan , under which a ceasefire is supposed to have begun on Thursday . 
There are outside forces that are not interested in the success of the current UN Security Council effort '' End Quote Sergei Lavrov Russian Foreign Minister As the Moroccan peacekeeper spoke , Syrian army tanks shelled the southern town of Basr al-Harir , killing at least two people and wounding dozens , activists said . 
The town , about 70km -LRB- 45 miles -RRB- south of Damascus , is reportedly a stronghold of the rebel Free Syrian Army -LRB- FSA -RRB- . 
Adel al-Omari , an activist in the area , told the Associated Press that troops had been shelling Basr al-Harir and the nearby rural region of Lajat since midday on Monday . 
He said the shelling was intensifying and that many residents were fleeing to nearby villages or to Jordan . 
In the northern province of Idlib , security forces fired mortars and machine guns in two villages . 
The Local Co-ordination Committees -LRB- LCC -RRB- , an activist network , put the death toll in Idlib at 35 . 
It said eight people had been executed in a field . 
From early morning we heard the distinct sound of artillery rounds landing in the Jabel al-Zawiya hills in Idlib province . 
It is home to thousands of people living in countless villages and many of the men here are also rebel fighters . 
The smoke from tank and artillery rounds could be seen rising in the distance . 
A military helicopter , armed with rockets circled the skies as we took cover and watched . 
Without time to pack up their belongings , families fled the area - afraid and angry . 
The UN monitors have come to Syria to verify a ceasefire . 
But the reality on the ground is that although government forces have withdrawn from many areas , attacks are ongoing . 
And without a real truce it is difficult to see how any kind of political process can begin . 
Government forces also continued to pound rebel-held districts of Homs , with the Syrian Observatory saying that mortar shells were landing at a rate of one a minute in Khaldiya and Bayada on Tuesday morning . 
Homs has been under almost continuous attack since the ceasefire began and some activists are warning there may not be much left to see if the UN observers do not come soon , reports the BBC 's Jim Muir in Beirut . 
The military , tanks and heavy weapons were all supposed to have been withdrawn a week ago under Mr Annan 's peace plan . 
The opposition Syrian National Council -LRB- SNC -RRB- accused the government of `` flagrant violations of the ceasefire '' and called on the UN observers to `` travel to Idlib and Homs immediately to see first-hand the massacres '' . 
But the government said that `` armed terrorist groups '' had escalated their attacks leaving the authorities with no choice but to respond . 
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said any ceasefire violation should be met with a swift and firm response by the UN Security Council . 
Addressing an international conference on Syria in Paris , Mr Juppe also said that Western sanctions on the country were having an effect and that its foreign currency reserves had been halved . 
Syria 's foreign reserves were estimated at $ 17bn -LRB- # 10.7 bn -RRB- before the uprising began last year . 
Oil production has also been reduced by 30 % , costing the government about $ 520m a month in revenue , according to French diplomats . 
UN Security Council resolution 2042 permits a team of up to 30 unarmed observers An initial group of six monitors has arrived in Syria The rest of the advance team is set to follow later Once certain conditions are met , the UN will seek Security Council approval for an expanded force of about 250 observers Secretary General Ban Ki-moon will set out concrete proposals by 18 April for this larger UN observer force Mr Juppe said the Syrian government was actively trying to evade the sanctions , and called for a solid international response to such `` maneuvers '' . 
But Russia , which was instrumental in persuading the Syrian government to accept the Annan plan and the ceasefire , seems to be backing the government line in blaming the rebels , our correspondent says . 
`` There are outside forces that are not interested in the success of the current UN Security Council effort , '' Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said . 
`` They are doing their best to influence the Syrian opposition not to co-operate with the government in maintaining the ceasefire and setting up a future dialogue , '' he added . 
The Arab League is meanwhile holding a ministerial meeting in Qatar , which Mr Annan is expected to attend to seek support for his plan . 
However , the emir of Qatar , which has openly advocated arming the opposition , has given the initiative just a 3 % chance of success . 
`` Earlier , we called for Arab military intervention to find a way out of the Syrian crisis , and spare the Syrian people further bloodshed . 
The appeals for help from a people oppressed and killed every day are met only with silence , '' Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani said on Monday . 
The UN says about 9,000 people have died since pro-democracy protests began in March 2011 . 
In February , the Syrian government put the death toll at 3,838 - 2,493 civilians and 1,345 security forces personnel . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria crisis : ` Gunfire ' as UN team visits Damascus suburb The UN aims to swell the ranks of the observers currently in Syria Videos posted online appear to show anti-government protesters ducking as snipers open fire in Arbeen . 
Crowds are shown surrounding the UN cars . 
The UN team is overseeing a shaky ceasefire brokered by UN-Arab League envoy Kofi Annan . 
UN chief Ban Ki-moon is to ask the Security Council to expand the observer force from 30 to 250 members . 
Meanwhile , US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said Syria was at a `` crucial turning point '' . 
Speaking in Brussels , she said President Bashar al-Assad faced tougher measures if he squandered his `` last chance '' by failing to implement Mr Annan 's peace plan . 
She said there was a need to `` tighten pressure on the regime and on those who support the regime '' , adding : `` Every country in Nato is watching the situation with concern . '' 
A spokesman for Mr Annan confirmed that the observers had been in Arbeen on Wednesday . 
UN Security Council resolution 2042 permits a team of up to 30 unarmed observers An initial group of six monitors has arrived in Syria The rest of the advance team is set to follow later Once certain conditions are met , the UN will seek Security Council approval for an expanded force of about 250 observers Secretary General Ban Ki-moon will set out concrete proposals by 18 April for this larger UN observer force Ahmad Fazwi said it would be `` appalling '' if it was confirmed that Syrian forces had opened fire in the area . 
The team 's head , Col Ahmet Himmiche , told Reuters news agency that the observers had not come under fire . 
He gave no further details . 
One activist video from the suburb appears to show Col Himmiche telling the crowd through a loud hailer to move back and let the cars pass . 
A protester is seen placing a banner on a UN car that reads : `` The killer is doing his killing , the monitors are doing their monitoring and the people are doing their revolution . '' 
The footage can not be verified . 
Activist group the Local Co-ordination Committees said that 32 people had been killed in violence across Syria on Wednesday , despite the ceasefire that began nearly a week ago . 
Activists said government forces were continuing to shell areas of Homs . 
Several districts remain outside government control despite a major offensive that began in February . 
Mr Annan 's six-point peace plan calls for Syrian forces to withdraw from residential areas ; the release of political prisoners ; the permitting of peaceful demonstrations ; greater access for the media and the start a democratic political transition . 
The BBC 's Ian Pannell reports on the plight of Syrian children in Idlib province as the ceasefire appears to falter Syria 's state news agency Sana reported on Wednesday that at least six members of the security forces had been killed by a bomb blast in Idlib province . 
A second blast in the Aleppo region killed four soldiers , it added . 
The advance UN team arrived in Syria on Sunday . 
Mr Ban is preparing to brief the UN Security Council on his proposals for a larger UN observer mission , supported by planes and helicopters from the EU . 
He has said that a 250-strong mission - as proposed by Mr Annan - might not be big enough . 
The UN says about 9,000 people have died since pro-democracy protests began in March 2011 . 
In February , the Syrian government put the death toll at 3,838 - 2,493 civilians and 1,345 security forces personnel . 
In other developments , Turkish authorities are due to search a ship in the port of Iskenderun following claims that it is carrying arms bound for Syria . 
Both the EU and Turkey have imposed an arms embargo on Syria . 
Meanwhile , the wives of the German and UK ambassadors to the UN have posted a video on YouTube urging President Assad 's wife , Asma , to help end the bloodshed in her country . 
They ask Mrs Assad to urge her husband to stop violent repression . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria crisis : Can UN mission succeed ? 
By Jim Muir BBC News , Beirut The UN mission is seen by many as the last throw of the dice for a political solution in Syria Will the new acronym UNSMIS - the UN Supervision Mission in Syria - pass into the Middle East 's lexicon and take up its place alongside those of other deployments , such as UNTSO and Unifil , which have for decades been helping keep some of the region 's potential flashpoints from exploding ? 
Or will the mission collapse and withdraw in disarray , unable to carry out its task of monitoring compliance with an already highly compromised ceasefire , and with chief envoy Kofi Annan 's six-point plan for stabilising the country and fostering dialogue on its future ? 
The Americans and others are clearly sceptical , and have already warned that their support for a renewal of the mission , when its initial mandate expires in three months ' time , should not be taken for granted . 
It is certainly unlike any other peacekeeping mission the UN has embarked on in the Middle East , and possibly anywhere else . 
Normally it is a case of monitoring respect of a formal truce involving states , not trying to ensure compliance with a work-in-progress peace plan in a situation which in some ways resembles a civil war . 
Syrian-led political process to address the aspirations and concerns of the Syrian people 2 . 
UN-supervised cessation of armed violence in all its forms by all parties to protect civilians 3 . 
All parties to ensure provision of humanitarian assistance to all areas affected by the fighting , and implement a daily two-hour humanitarian pause 4 . 
Authorities to intensify the pace and scale of release of arbitrarily detained persons 5 . 
Authorities to ensure freedom of movement throughout the country for journalists 6 . 
Authorities to respect freedom of association and the right to demonstrate peacefully In other words , the observers are being expected to help create the peace they are supposed to be monitoring . 
Mr Annan himself has said the Security Council 's decision to deploy 300 unarmed UN monitors is `` a pivotal moment in the stabilisation of the country '' . 
That is certainly what he hopes : that the presence of the monitors will in itself help to bring the situation under control , by `` changing the political dynamics on the ground '' , as his spokesman Ahmad Fawzi put it . 
It is clearly a gamble , a last throw of the dice for a political solution to the Syrian crisis . 
It is hard to imagine any other peace project being more balanced and reasonable than the Annan plan , or garnering the unanimous international support that he has marshalled behind it . 
So if this does not work , nothing will . 
It will be back to a trial of strength on the ground , with predictably drastic consequences . 
Despite the obvious imperfections of the ceasefire , to put it mildly , the prognosis for the observer mission is not totally black . 
Syrian troops were supposed to have withdrawn from population centres by 10 April Violence has flared and sputtered in many places . 
But overall the levels of hostilities and the casualty figures are below pre-ceasefire averages . 
The tiny number of observers already deployed as the advance party have covered a surprising amount of ground , especially considering that they are also engaged in setting up liaison mechanisms with both sides and organising logistics for the full deployment . 
There have been several instances in the past few days - in Hama and Douma , for example - where visits by the monitors have taken place peacefully , only for violence to erupt again the next day . 
In both instances , the monitors returned later to verify what had happened . 
But in Homs , where two observers are now permanently stationed , the casualty figures are no longer topping the nationwide lists as they did day after day before the monitors arrived . 
The heavy weapons which wrought such carnage seem to have been more or less silenced there . 
So the deployment of the full 300-strong contingent over the coming weeks should have a considerable impact . 
They will obviously split down into small groups , and - presuming they get the freedom of access and mobility the UN has demanded and been promised - they should be able to move swiftly from one trouble-spot to another as required . 
Their task is not just to monitor compliance with the truce , but to ensure that all clauses of the Annan plan are fully implemented . 
Most crucially , that means verifying regime compliance with the provision that it must withdraw its troops , tanks and heavy weapons from population centres . 
According to Mr Fawzi , Syrian Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallim has informed Mr Annan in writing two days ago that those provisions have already been carried out - despite much evidence to the contrary . 
But the commitment is there , which means that confronting the authorities with evidence of breaches should in theory lead to their swift correction . 
Much will depend not just on the regime 's intentions , but on those of the various armed opposition groups . 
Once fully deployed , the UNSMIS monitors should be able to gauge the validity of the regime 's assertions that the post-truce violence has been provoked by the rebels - a contention strongly backed by Russia . 
If either side , or both , decides to keep up the violence , the observers might ultimately face no choice but to withdraw , especially if the unarmed monitors start taking casualties . 
But if the regime is clearly seen to be to blame , and consistently out of compliance with agreements it has signed , the consequences would be considerable . 
Russia , China and others who have protected Syria from punitive action by the Security Council would find themselves perhaps unable to continue doing so . 
It is doubtful that Damascus can go it alone , especially without Russia . 
If the Russians themselves remain as committed to the Annan plan as they say they are , and the rebel side complies , the regime may have no choice but to implement steps - such as freeing all detainees and allowing demonstrations to be held unhindered - that would threaten its grip on much of the country and weaken its position in any settlement dialogue . 
Some Arab analysts in touch with regime thinking believe it does understand that there will be a price to be paid for survival in any form - perhaps the formation of a government with opposition figures prominent in it . 
But many obstacles will have to be overcome on the ground before events reach anywhere near that point . 
And given the fate of the ceasefire so far , optimism is in short supply . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


The UN hopes to deploy as many as 300 observers A sharp rise in the number of deaths in the Syrian uprising is casting fresh doubt on the success of a UN peace plan , and testing a ceasefire deal . 
Activists said nearly 70 people were killed on Monday , most in a government crackdown in the city of Hama . 
The US said the UN monitoring mission was `` risky and dangerous '' . 
The UN is pressing to increase its monitors from a handful to 300 and chief envoy Kofi Annan is currently briefing the Security Council again . 
A UN-brokered ceasefire came into effect on 12 April , but although the overall level of violence has dropped since then , President Bashar al-Assad 's government has been accused of failing to abide by key terms of the truce plan . 
Mr Annan 's spokesman said there were credible reports that people who met monitors were then approached and sometimes killed by security forces . 
In remarks broadcast on UN television , Ahmed Fawzi described the reports as `` totally unacceptable '' . 
He added there was evidence Syria had not withdrawn heavy weapons from urban centres as promised . '' 
-LRB- The Syrian authorities -RRB- are claiming that this has happened , '' he said , quoted by Reuters news agency . 
`` Satellite imagery , however , and credible reports show that this has not fully happened , so this is unacceptable , and joint special envoy Kofi Annan will be saying this to the Security Council today -LRB- Tuesday -RRB- when he addresses them in closed session . '' 
Activists have pointed to the situation in Hama as an example of the dangers of the UN mission . 
There have been attacks every day since the ceasefire deal was announced - the regime is in constant breach of this ceasefire '' End Quote Samer Hama resident One activist there , Mousab al-Hamadi , told the Associated Press -LRB- AP -RRB- news agency dissidents were punished for coming out to greet the visiting UN observers on Sunday , when they chanted `` Long live Syria ! 
Down with Assad '' . 
Syrian troops reportedly fired shells and automatic weapons in the northern Arbaeen and Mashaa al-Arbaeen districts on Monday . 
Some 40 people were said to have died . 
Another activist told AP : `` Those observers brought destruction upon us . 
Any area they visit , the regime attacks . 
It 's a tragedy . '' 
Samer , in Hama , has told the BBC government attacks on the city have continued despite the ceasefire deal , and that Monday 's assault was the worst since the truce was announced . 
`` There have been attacks every day since the ceasefire deal was announced . 
The regime is in constant breach of this ceasefire . 
`` What happens is the observers visit neighborhoods in the city , then once they leave , the shooting and shelling starts again . '' 
He said activists had been expecting further attacks on Tuesday , and that all shops apart from chemists were closed as a result . 
The government 's brief account said only that security forces `` pursued armed terrorist groups '' which had been attacking and killing citizens in the area . 
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said rebels had earlier targeted the car of an army officer in the city , killing him and an assistant . 
And on Tuesday it reported that three intelligence officers were killed in Damascus . 
Syrian TV also reported a car bomb had exploded in the center of the capital on Tuesday , injuring three people . 
A similar situation to Hama was reported in the city of Deraa , where anti-government protesters who greeted UN observers were later reportedly subjected to tear gas and gunfire from security forces . 
The BBC 's Jim Muir , in neighbouring Lebanon , says that , in contrast , the situation in the flashpoint city of Homs has been quieter , as two UN observers are now permanently stationed there . 
Syrian-led political process to address the aspirations and concerns of the Syrian people 2 . 
UN-supervised cessation of armed violence in all its forms by all parties to protect civilians 3 . 
All parties to ensure provision of humanitarian assistance to all areas affected by the fighting , and implement a daily two-hour humanitarian pause 4 . 
Authorities to intensify the pace and scale of release of arbitrarily detained persons 5 . 
Authorities to ensure freedom of movement throughout the country for journalists 6 . 
Authorities to respect freedom of association and the right to demonstrate peacefully He says that is why UN officials are calling this a `` pivotal moment '' in the pacification process , hoping that the deployment of the full contingent of 300 monitors over the coming weeks will change the political dynamics and prepare the way for dialogue towards a settlement . 
The UN currently has 11 unarmed observers under its Supervision Mission to Syria -LRB- UNSMIS -RRB- . 
The UN passed a resolution on 14 April for a total of 30 , then another resolution last Saturday to increase the number to up to 300 . 
Mr Annan , the UN and Arab League envoy to Syria , has said he believes the deployment of the 300 monitors can begin next week . 
But following Monday 's violence , US permanent representative to the UN Susan Rice told the Security Council : `` The regime 's long track record is one of dependable deceit and deception , thus this Syrian mission is unusually risky and dangerous . '' 
UN political chief B Lynn Pascoe added that `` human rights violations are still perpetrated with impunity '' . 
On Monday , UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon again insisted that Syria `` should provide full protection of our monitors and ensure their freedom of access , freedom of movement '' . 
The UN says about 9,000 people have died since pro-democracy protests began in March 2011 . 
In February , the Syrian government put the death toll at 3,838 - 2,493 civilians and 1,345 security forces personnel . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


The UN special envoy , Kofi Annan , has told the Security Council that Syria is still witnessing unacceptable levels of violence , despite a ceasefire being in place since 12 April . 
Briefing diplomats in a closed-door session , Mr Annan said he was alarmed about surges in violence in Syrian cities after visits by UN monitors . 
One activist group said 38 people were killed on Tuesday , mostly in Homs . 
The UN wants to increase its observers in Syria from a handful to 300 . 
Mr Annan said the overall situation was `` entirely contrary to the will of the international community '' . 
He said he was `` particularly alarmed '' by reports of government forces firing on protesters in Hama . 
`` If confirmed , this is totally unacceptable and reprehensible , '' he said . 
He also called for the rapid deployment of the observer mission . 
The US permanent representative to the UN , Susan Rice , told a news conference that all Security Council members wanted the observers to be deployed more quickly . 
Ms Rice said that it was hoped 100 observers would be in Syria within a month . 
However , Ms Rice said Syria had refused at least one observer because of his nationality , and had made clear it would not admit UN staff from any country in the `` Friends of Democratic Syria '' group . 
Meanwhile , Chinese state media reported that two Chinese observers had arrived in Syria on Tuesday . 
The BBC 's Laura Trevelyan at the UN says the US and its European allies are likely to question Mr Annan on how the shaky ceasefire can be safely monitored . 
Syrian-led political process to address the aspirations and concerns of the Syrian people 2 . 
UN-supervised cessation of armed violence in all its forms by all parties to protect civilians 3 . 
All parties to ensure provision of humanitarian assistance to all areas affected by the fighting , and implement a daily two-hour humanitarian pause 4 . 
Authorities to intensify the pace and scale of release of arbitrarily detained persons 5 . 
Authorities to ensure freedom of movement throughout the country for journalists 6 . 
Authorities to respect freedom of association and the right to demonstrate peacefully The Security Council remains divided on broader policy towards Syria . 
The Western powers are pushing for tougher action while Damascus 's allies , Russia and China , say Mr Annan 's six-point peace plan , which the Syrian government has agreed to , is sufficient . 
Earlier Mr Annan 's spokesman , Ahmed Fawzi , said satellite imagery showed the Syrian government was failing to withdraw heavy weapons from urban centres . 
He also said there were credible reports that people who met monitors were then approached and sometimes killed by security forces . 
Earlier an activist in Hama told the Associated Press that dissidents had been punished for coming out to greet the visiting UN observers on Sunday , when they chanted `` Long live Syria ! 
Down with Assad ! '' 
Syrian troops reportedly fired shells and automatic weapons in the northern Arbaeen and Mashaa al-Arbaeen districts on Monday . 
Some 40 people were said to have died . 
Another activist , named as Samer , told the BBC there have been government attacks every day and the regime is constantly breaching the ceasefire . 
`` What happens is the observers visit neighborhoods in the city , then once they leave , the shooting and shelling starts again , '' he said . 
The government said security forces `` pursued armed terrorist groups '' which had been attacking and killing citizens in the area . 
Syrian TV also reported a car bomb had exploded in the center of the capital on Tuesday , injuring three people . 
The Local Co-ordination Committees -LRB- LCC -RRB- , an activist network , said 38 people had been killed by security forces across the country on Tuesday , including 16 in the city of Homs and 11 in the suburbs of Damascus . 
The UN says about 9,000 people have died since pro-democracy protests began in March 2011 . 
In February , the Syrian government put the death toll at 3,838 - 2,493 civilians and 1,345 security forces personnel . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria crisis : France raises use of force Recent footage showed explosions in Douma and tanks on the streets in parts of the country France says the Security Council should consider the use of force in Syria if a UN-backed peace plan fails to stop violence in the country . 
`` We can not allow the -LRB- Damascus -RRB- regime to defy us , '' French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said . 
Violence has continued despite a plan by international envoy Kofi Annan calling on Damascus to withdraw troops and heavy weapons from cities . 
Mr Juppe said 300 UN monitors should be deployed in Syria within two weeks . 
If the peace plan fails , he added , `` we would have to move to a new stage with a Chapter Seven resolution -LRB- which allows for action that could be backed by force -RRB- to stop this tragedy '' . 
Barbara Plett BBC UN correspondent France 's demands reflect frustration with what it sees as the inadequacies of Kofi Annan 's peace plan , and signal an attempt to move to a more aggressive posture . 
But that approach seems to have no chance of success at this point . 
Russia and China continue to oppose anything that looks like outside intervention . 
Russia in particular has invested its diplomatic capital in the Annan plan , so it 's even more unlikely than usual to change course . 
But other Security Council members also believe the plan needs to be given time . 
They broadly accept Kofi Annan 's argument that gradually and permanently basing observers in flashpoint cities could change the dynamic on the ground , as seen in Homs . 
Mr Annan 's peace plan is the only response to the Syria crisis that 's received united council backing , and there 's quiet consensus here that it will be his call as to if and when it fails , not France 's . 
There are concerns that such a resolution would be vetoed by Russia and China - which have blocked previous attempts to impose UN sanctions on Syria . 
The UN has sent a small advance team of observers to Syria . 
Last weekend the Security Council approved the deployment of another 300 . 
Violence was reported on Wednesday in several parts of Syria - including in towns where observers are monitoring a ceasefire agreed earlier this month . 
Activists say about 20 people were killed in total . 
The UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said security forces had opened fire on a bus in the north-western province of Idlib , killing four . 
In Hama , seven civilians including a two-year-old girl died as the government shelled parts of the town , activists said . 
Two observers were staying in the center , a short distance away . 
In the southern province of Deraa , clashes were reported between armed rebels and government forces in the towns of Bosra al-Sham and Tafas . 
The observatory said at least six people , including soldiers , died . 
Activists also said several people were killed by shelling and sniper fire in the Harasta and Douma suburbs of Damascus , despite UN monitors being in the capital . 
The reports can not be independently verified owing to government restrictions on foreign media . 
The Syrian government says it is fighting armed gangs , and that the terms of the ceasefire allow its forces to respond to attacks . 
Syrian-led political process to address the aspirations and concerns of the Syrian people 2 . 
UN-supervised cessation of armed violence in all its forms by all parties to protect civilians 3 . 
All parties to ensure provision of humanitarian assistance to all areas affected by the fighting , and implement a daily two-hour humanitarian pause 4 . 
Authorities to intensify the pace and scale of release of arbitrarily detained persons 5 . 
Authorities to ensure freedom of movement throughout the country for journalists 6 . 
Authorities to respect freedom of association and the right to demonstrate peacefully Mr Annan told the Security Council on Tuesday that the Syrian military had not withdrawn its forces or heavy weapons from population centres . 
He said he was `` particularly alarmed by reports that government troops entered Hama -LRB- on Monday -RRB- after observers departed , firing automatic weapons and killing a significant number of people '' . 
`` If confirmed , this is totally unacceptable and reprehensible , '' he added . 
Also on Tuesday the US permanent representative to the UN , Susan Rice , told reporters that all Security Council members wanted the observers to be deployed more quickly . 
Ms Rice said that it was hoped 100 observers would be in Syria within a month . 
However , Ms Rice said Syria had refused at least one observer because of his nationality , and had made clear it would not admit UN staff from any country in the `` Friends of Democratic Syria '' group . 
Are you in Syria ? 
Send us your comments and experiences using the form below . 
Send your pictures and videos to yourpics@bbc.co.uk or text them to 61124 -LRB- UK -RRB- or +447624800100 -LRB- International -RRB- . 
If you have a large file you can upload here . 
If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on . 
In some cases a selection of your comments will be published , displaying your name as you provide it and location , unless you state otherwise . 
Your contact details will never be published . 
When sending us pictures , video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others , take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws . 
Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria massacre in Houla condemned as outrage grows Jim Muir in Beirut : `` Some opposition groups are saying this could be a turning point '' Western nations are pressing for a response to the massacre in the Syrian town of Houla , with the US calling for an end to President Bashar al-Assad 's `` rule by murder '' . 
UK Foreign Secretary William Hague has called for an emergency meeting of the UN Security Council this week . 
The UN has confirmed the deaths of at least 90 people in Houla , including 32 children under the age of 10 . 
Syria 's foreign ministry denied army involvement , blaming `` terrorists '' . 
Spokesman Jihad Makdissi said there was a clash in the area on Friday afternoon between security forces and armed terrorists . 
He said hundreds of armed men then gathered , armed with heavy weapons including mortars and anti-tank weapons , and attacked Houla . 
The government had sent a team to investigate the killings , he added . 
However , activists say the Syrian military bombarded Houla after demonstrations . 
Activists say some of the victims died by shelling , while others were summarily executed by the regime militia known as the `` shabiha '' . 
The killings have sparked a chorus of international condemnation . 
Mr Hague said he would lobby Russia , the regime 's only major foreign ally , during a visit to Moscow starting on Sunday . 
He wrote on his Twitter feed : `` Will call on Russia to support rapid and unequivocal pressure on Assad regime and accountability for crimes . '' 
Shashank Joshi Associate fellow , Royal United Services Institute So far , there is no sign that Houla will be a game-changer . 
First , remember that this massacre will be interpreted differently around the world . 
Many countries sympathise with the Assad 's government narrative that the opposition are Arab-backed Sunni fundamentalists and terrorists . 
Just as some critics argue that the massacres in Libya last year and Racak , Kosovo , in 1999 are exaggerated or fabricated , similar scepticism about Houla will persist , even in the face of incontrovertible evidence - and that will affect how the UN Security Council lines up on the issue . 
Moreover , the growing role of al-Qaeda and affiliated jihadist groups in Syria has , in recent months , become a further deterrent to intervention . 
American officials are terrified that support for the opposition may end up in the hands of the very same people that mounted attacks on Western forces in Iraq just a few years ago . 
Above all , however , no-one wants to pick a fight with Russia . 
`` Time is running out for the Assad regime to adopt the -LRB- Kofi Annan peace -RRB- plan , implement that plan and stop the torture , abuse and murder of their own people , '' he told the BBC . 
US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton called it an `` appalling '' massacre , saying President Bashar al-Assad 's `` rule by murder and fear must come to an end '' . 
In a statement on Saturday , Mrs Clinton called the deaths an `` atrocity '' and said Washington would increase pressure on `` Assad and his cronies '' to give up power . 
France 's Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said he was making immediate arrangements for a Paris meeting of the Friends of Syria group . 
The group includes Western and Arab nations , but not Russia or China , which have blocked previous attempts to introduce UN sanctions . 
In a joint statement , UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and UN-Arab League envoy Kofi Annan said the attack was a `` flagrant violation of international law '' . 
They said the crime involved `` indiscriminate and disproportionate use of force '' and violated commitments by Syria 's government . 
In April , Damascus pledged to implement a six-point plan brokered by Mr Annan , including a ceasefire and the withdrawal of heavy weaponry from urban areas . 
Mr Annan is expected to visit Damascus on Monday to try to breathe life into the political process . 
But the opposition Free Syrian Army -LRB- FSA -RRB- said it could no longer commit to the ceasefire unless the Security Council could ensure that civilians were protected . 
In a statement , the FSA said that if urgent steps were not taken , then Mr Annan 's plan was `` going to hell '' . 
It said killings in Syria were taking place `` under the eyes of the UN observers , '' and called on states to `` announce the failure of the Annan plan '' . 
Violence in Syria has continued despite the deployment of some 260 UN observers sent to oversee a ceasefire . 
The head of the observer mission in Syria , Maj Gen Robert Mood , called the massacre a `` brutal tragedy '' , but did not say who carried out the murders . 
After a UN visit to the town on Saturday , he said they could confirm `` the use of small arms , machine gun , artillery and tanks '' . 
`` Whoever started , whoever responded and whoever carried out this deplorable act of violence should be held responsible , '' Gen Mood said . 
The UN has confirmed the deaths of at least 90 people , but the opposition Syrian National Council , as well as rights groups , put the toll higher . 
Activists have complained that they called for help as the massacre was taking place . 
Abu Emad , speaking from Houla , said their appeals to UN monitors failed to produce action . 
`` We told them at night , we called seven of them . 
We told them the massacre is being committed right now at Houla by the mercenaries of this regime and they just refused to come and stop the massacre , '' he said . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Vladimir Putin -LRB- L -RRB- spoke after a meeting with France 's President Francois Hollande Russia 's President Vladimir Putin has resisted diplomatic pressure from Western nations to support tougher action against Syria 's government . 
Mr Putin , an ally of Syria , called for more time to be given to the peace plan of envoy Kofi Annan . 
The US and UK have called on Moscow to strengthen its condemnation of the Syrian regime since last week 's massacre in Houla , where 108 died . 
Earlier , Moscow opposed a UN Human Rights Council resolution on Syria . 
In an emergency session on Friday , the council condemned Syria over the Houla massacre and called for an investigation . 
But Russia voted against the US-backed resolution , arguing that it was `` unbalanced '' . 
Meanwhile , a US government website published satellite images apparently showing a mass grave in the Houla area . 
Correspondents say Mr Putin 's latest remarks , made after a meeting with French President Francois Hollande , highlight the divisions between Moscow and Paris towards the conflict in Syria . 
Speaking at a news conference , Mr Hollande called for further pressure and sanctions , and said the only solution was for President Bashar al-Assad to resign . 
Residents of Taldou village in the Houla region say that after an anti-government protest on 25 May , the army began an 18-hour bombardment Some accounts say rebel fighters attacked the military position from where shellfire was coming Unconfirmed reports say pro-government shabiha militia entered Taldou , killing people at home , shooting them in the head or cutting their throats UN observers say at least 108 people died , including 49 children and 34 women . 
No more than 20 appeared to have been killed by shellfire A government investigation blames armed groups seeking to trigger foreign military intervention He said Mr Assad 's regime had conducted itself in an `` unacceptable , intolerable way '' and had committed acts that disqualified it from power . 
`` There is no possible exit from this situation except with the departure of Bashar Assad , '' he said . 
Mr Putin , however , questioned calls for the Syrian president to quit . 
`` Why are we thinking that if we push the current leadership from power , then tomorrow general wellbeing will begin there , '' Mr Putin said . 
`` What is happening in Libya ? 
What is happening in Iraq ? 
Has it become safer there ? 
We propose to act in an accurate , balanced manner at least in Syria . '' 
He said the most important thing was to prevent the worst-case scenario of civil war . 
There have been calls for more action to be taken in Syria to stop the violence , which has continued despite Mr Annan 's six-point peace plan . 
Speaking in Oslo on Friday , US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton hit out at Russia saying she did not believe it was acting impartially . 
`` We know there has been a very consistent arms trade , even during the past year , coming from Russia to Syria . 
We also believe the continuous supply of arms from Russia has strengthened the Assad regime , '' she told a news conference . 
On Thursday , Western officials confirmed a report that a Russian cargo ship had delivered heavy weapons to the Syrian port of Tartus last weekend . 
Mr Putin has insisted that Russia was not supplying Syria with arms `` that could be used in a civilian conflict '' . 
Earlier , the UN Human Rights Council said it wanted investigators to identify the perpetrators of the killings in Houla . 
Navi Pillay 's representative : `` Those who order , help or fail to stop attacks on civilians are individually criminally liable for their actions '' In the vote , 41 members voted in favor of the US-backed resolution condemning Syria , while Russia , China and Cuba voted against it . 
Two other countries abstained and one was absent . 
Residents of the village of Taldou , in Houla , said militiamen had been sent in early last Saturday after the Syrian army unleashed a barrage of heavy weapons late on Friday in response to a local anti-government protest . 
The UN high commissioner for human rights , Navi Pillay , said the killings in Houla may amount to crimes against humanity . 
She said those who ordered attacks were `` individually criminally liable '' , and urged the UN Security Council to refer Syria to the International Criminal Court -LRB- ICC -RRB- , a move opposed by Russia and China . 
As Syria is not a state party to the ICC the court has no jurisdiction to indict its citizens without a Security Council referral . 
Meanwhile , opposition activists said there had been another mass killing of civilians by pro-government militiamen . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites 2nd June 2012 - 15:21 It 's hard to know who to believe regarding Syria . 
It would n't be the first time our -LRB- Western -RRB- governments and media have misrepresented the facts . 
For all its alleged faults , the Assad regime is tolerant towards religious minorities , including Christians . 
It has also managed to keep the peace with Israel , despite the occasional tiff . 
Perhaps we should heed the idiom , `` better the devil you know ... '' 2nd June 2012 - 14:59 I 'm sure that since Assad claims innocence then he would welcome an investigative team of 10 police from each of the UN members . 
1930 people who could freely investigate who has committed these vile crimes . 
Unless , of course , he and his allies are guilty ? 
2nd June 2012 - 14:23 Arguably the UN would be dysfunctional without the permanent member vetoes . 
It is certainly not fit for purpose with this system . 
It was impotent to prevent war crimes in Iraq , Libya , Lebanon , Palestine , etc. . 
It is a waste of space and should be abandoned . 
2nd June 2012 - 11:02 In my opinion the Syrians should sort this out themselves . 
It is their affair and no one else 's . 
Intervening in it will just cause more problems . 
All posts are reactively-moderated and must obey the house rules . 


Kofi Annan said the conflict was developing an alarming sectarian dimension Syria is slipping closer to all-out war with each passing day , the UN peace envoy Kofi Annan has warned . 
Mr Annan , in Doha for a meeting with Arab League members , warned that the conflict was developing an alarming sectarian dimension . 
Qatar urged the UN to set a deadline for Mr Annan 's peace plan , saying there should be no more `` stalling '' . 
Syrian opposition groups said Russia was becoming part of the problem by supporting President Bashar al-Assad . 
`` The spectre of all-out civil war , with a worrying sectarian dimension , grows by the day , '' Mr Annan said . 
He said that the massacre at Houla , in which 108 people were killed , many of them women and children , was appalling and that the crisis was now at `` tipping point '' . 
The UN Human Rights Council approved an investigation into the mass killing last week . 
Mr Annan , who admitted that his six-point plan had failed to stop the violence , expressed frustration with the Syrian president for not matching words with actions . 
Jim Muir BBC News , Beirut This was the starkest warning yet from Mr Annan , as he continues to urge the Syrian leadership to take what he calls `` bold steps '' on the ground to show that its serious about reaching a peace agreement . 
Earlier , in Beirut on Friday , he had expressed his frustration and impatience , and made it clear that his mission was not open-ended . 
He is under pressure from Qatar and other Arab states who want to see the Assad regime fall , to set a cut-off point at which he would declare his peace plan a failure . 
The Syrian opposition , and especially the rebel Free Syrian Army , are also wary that his mission may simply be buying time for the regime . 
He urged the international community not to forget that the conflict risked spilling over . 
It was vital , he said , `` to keep our goals firmly in view : stopping the killing , helping the suffering population , securing a political transition - and , I would add , ensuring that the crisis does not spread to the neighbors '' . 
Meanwhile reports from northern Lebanon on Saturday said at least seven people had been killed and 20 wounded in clashes between Lebanese supporters and opponents of the Syrian regime in the port city of Tripoli . 
In Syria itself , opposition activists reported that there was more violence on Saturday . 
Two civilians were killed - one during an army raid in the capital , Damascus and another by gunfire in the city of Homs . 
The British-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights also said that rebels had killed six soldiers in the southern province of Deraa and at least eight others in clashes on the outskirts of Damascus . 
Burhan Ghalioun , of the Syrian National Council - the divided body which says it represents the political opposition to Mr Assad - said Russia was standing in the way of progress . 
`` With its support of the regime and for Assad remaining , Russia has become part of the problem rather than part of the solution , '' he said . 
`` If it co-operates to find a formula that makes Assad leave , it will become part of the solution . '' 
Russia 's President Vladimir Putin has resisted diplomatic pressure to support tougher action against Syria 's government , calling for more time to be given to Mr Annan 's plan . 
The country voted against the recent US-backed human rights council resolution , arguing that it was `` unbalanced '' . 
Meanwhile , Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim al-Thani of Qatar said a time limit should be set for Mr Annan 's mission - which began three months ago . 
He also called for it to fall under Chapter 7 of the UN charter , enabling the use of force . 
`` We , the international community , can not accept the situation to continue as it is , '' he said . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites 


President Assad : `` Our anger -LRB- at the Houla massacre -RRB- was indescribable '' Syria 's President Bashar al-Assad has denied his government 's forces had any role in the Houla massacre . 
More than 100 people , many of them children , were killed in the attack overnight between 25 and 26 May , most knifed or shot at close range . 
Mr Assad described the killings as an `` ugly crime '' that even `` monsters '' would not carry out . 
Addressing parliament , he blamed `` foreign meddling '' for Syria 's divisions . 
`` What happened in Houla and elsewhere -LRB- in Syria -RRB- are brutal massacres which even monsters would not have carried out , '' he said in the televised address . 
`` If we do n't feel the pain the pain that squeezes our hearts , as I felt it , for the cruel scenes - especially the children - then we are not human beings , '' he said . 
UN investigators have said most of the dead were summarily executed , and eyewitnesses had said pro-government militias had carried out most of the killings . 
The massacre has triggered international condemnation and led to several countries expelling Syrian diplomats in protest . 
Jim Muir BBC News , Beirut Anybody hoping that President Assad 's first public speech since January might open up some lines of advance towards a solution will have been disappointed . 
He repeated his regime 's long-standing argument - that it is facing not an internal political crisis but an outside plot , using domestic instruments , to destroy the country , because of its resistance to Israel . 
This `` imposed war '' as he called it , had failed through all its cycles - first popular disturbances , then armed action , then terrorist assassinations and bomb attacks , and now , he said , attempts to stir up sectarian strife through such atrocities as the massacre at Houla , which he described as so horrible that even monsters could not have committed it . 
To accuse the Syrian army of doing it , he said , was tantamount to accusing every Syrian citizen of being a terrorist . 
Mr Assad again blamed `` terrorists '' , supported by foreign powers , for fomenting discord and creating `` a project of ... dissent '' inside the country . 
He said Syria was `` facing attempts to weaken Syria , breach its sovereignty '' . 
The only way to resolve the crisis , he said , was through political dialogue . 
But he said he would not negotiate with those who , he said , did not represent the will of the Syrian people . 
The international peace envoy Kofi Annan , sent by the United Nations and the Arab League , expressed frustration on Saturday that Mr Assad was not turning his words into actions . 
He said the Syrian president `` must make bold and visible steps immediately to radically change his military posture and honor his commitment to withdraw heavy weapons and cease all violence '' . 
Violence continued on Saturday in Syria where , according to the UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights quoted by Agence France Presse , 89 people , including 57 soldiers were killed . 
If confirmed , it would be the largest number of casualties the military has suffered in a single day since the uprising began in March 2011 . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


By Jonathan Marcus BBC Diplomatic Correspondent For the moment , that does not seem to be the case . 
Indeed , since the outset of the Syria crisis in March 2011 , there has been little appetite for outside military intervention . 
This has been based on two assessments . 
Firstly , that this would be no simple military option : the situation on the ground in Syria is in many ways very different from that in , for example , Libya - the opposition is much more divided , the government 's security forces are much stronger , and Syria 's air defences are more effective . 
US officials are unanimous in arguing that the Assad regime is doomed and can only hang on for a limited time , with or without increased US support for the Syrian opposition '' End Quote Joshua Landis Centre for Middle East Studies , University of Oklahoma Secondly , there has been a view that the implications of toppling President Bashar al-Assad could prompt a much wider wave of instability in the region . 
Unlike Libya , Syria - both politically and geographically - is a central player in the Arab world , and sectarianism and instability there could threaten both Lebanon and Iraq . 
Then , of course , there is the fundamental legal problem . 
Constrained by Russian and Chinese vetoes at the UN Security Council , there is no possibility of getting a resolution to authorise force . 
That has not always mattered in the past . 
Nato troops went into Kosovo , after all , to halt systematic abuses by Serbian forces . 
But the absence of legal authorisation certainly precludes action when there is little enthusiasm for it in the first place . 
So what are we to make of calls from senior Republican politicians in the US , like Senator John McCain , urging air strikes against Syrian security forces ? 
Joshua Landis , director of the Centre for Middle East Studies at the University of Oklahoma , says : `` Despite the growing chorus of politicians calling for US leadership in Syria , the Obama administration is adamant that Washington should not take the lead , but follow regional partners , Saudi Arabia and Turkey . '' 
The Obama administration has so far ruled out military intervention in Syria Mr Landis argues the simple fact is that the Obama administration sees no strong reason to intervene . 
`` US officials are unanimous in arguing that the Assad regime is doomed and can only hang on for a limited time , with or without increased US support for the Syrian opposition . 
I think they are right in this analysis . 
`` This means that the US has no compelling national security interest in jumping into the Syrian civil war that is emerging . 
The regime 's days are numbered . '' 
Much of the debate on outside intervention is vague . 
It confuses and makes false distinctions between the different options and to a large extent glosses over many of the fundamental problems facing them all . 
The main thrust of any external action would be essentially humanitarian in nature , a response to the growing plight of civilians in Syrian towns and cities who are under bombardment by government forces . 
Efforts could also be made to bring assistance to displaced refugees who have moved towards Syria 's frontiers with Turkey and Lebanon . 
Three related measures are being discussed . 
Suggested first by the then French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe last year , the idea would be to establish short corridors into Syrian territory through which humanitarian supplies could be delivered . 
The establishment of safe areas within Syrian territory is an idea that has been broached by the Turkish Foreign Minister , Ahmet Davutoglu . 
Such havens would be in border areas , acting as a place of safety where refugees could gather , be fed and sheltered , and so on . 
Often discussed in relation to both of the above , the suggestion is that Western air power could help ensure the safety of the zones or corridors . 
In itself , air power would not halt the fighting . 
It is not the Syrian air force that is primarily involved in offensives on opposition strongholds - although activists say jets and helicopters have been used to carry out reconnaissance and occasionally air strikes - but the government 's ground forces . 
But a discussion of air power underscores that unless the Syrian authorities agree to allow humanitarian access , any safe zones or corridors would first have to be established by force and then defended by force . 
The horror of Srebrenica in the Balkans showed what can happen if there is no will to defend a safe zone once created . 
The key point here is that even the options directed primarily at humanitarian relief require significant military elements too . 
They involve seizing and holding bits of Syrian territory and a willingness to take on Syrian forces if necessary . 
Air power would be crucial - though Western warplanes would have to contend with Syria 's reasonably sophisticated air defences . 
Boots would almost certainly be needed on the ground too . 
These are not `` military lite '' options . 
Changing the balance of power These options seek to accelerate the processes already at work in Syria both by strengthening the opposition forces and thus seeking to increase the pressure on the Syrian authorities . 
Again , a range of strategies is available . 
The quality and quantity of weaponry going to the opposition seems to have improved in recent weeks Logistical support for armed rebel groups This has probably been under way for some time . 
The idea is to provide medical supplies and non-lethal equipment such as radios to make the opposition more effective . 
For some , this is seen as the thin end of the wedge , leading to the arming of rebel forces . 
This is certainly what happened in Libya . 
The aim here would be to limit weaponry and munitions going to the Syrian government . 
In the absence of UN Security Council action , this would rest on shaky legal ground . 
It might also mean being willing to halt Russian shipping , since it is Moscow that remains the Assad regime 's principle armourer . 
Both Qatar and Saudi Arabia have voiced their support for arming the opposition forces in Syria . 
There are strong indications that over recent weeks , the quality and quantity of weaponry going to the Syrian opposition has improved , as has their effectiveness . 
Simon Henderson , senior fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy , wonders if arming the opposition `` is necessarily the best tactic '' , and getting the Syrian army to flip might be a better way of getting rid of President Assad . 
`` Pressure needs to be put on different division commanders , '' he argues . 
`` The US can no doubt identify the commanders and possibly communicate with them - it did this sort of thing during the invasion of Iraq . '' 
Indeed , there have been persistent reports of the US flying drones over the country to gather evidence of humanitarian abuses . 
`` Of course , '' he notes , the risk is that `` this might only bring about a new military-led regime '' . 
Any attack against Syria would have to be on a much larger scale compared with that seen in Libya When the offensive against Homs was at its height , the US very publicly released satellite photos showing Syrian artillery batteries and rocket launchers attacking the city . 
There were two messages here - one was that the world was watching and documenting what was happening ; the second was perhaps a potential threat - what can be seen from the air can be hit from the air . 
But as yet there is simply no appetite in Washington to engage in another military conflict in the Middle East . 
Any attack against Syria would have to be on a much larger scale compared to the military operations launched against Libya . 
Indeed , initial US military assessments suggest that a protracted campaign against Syria 's integrated air defences , due to their location , could lead to serious civilian loss of life . 
For now , such an operation is simply not on President Barack Obama 's agenda . 
An active discussion about the merits or pitfalls of intervention is nonetheless being waged in both Arab and Western capitals . 
The crisis in Syria is so serious and the stakes are so high that nobody wants to rule out any option . 
Much , of course , depends upon how things develop . 
There are fears further militarisation of the conflict could lead to prolonged civil war should Mr Assad go A central concern in the debate relates to weapons supplies and their impact , not so much on the struggle between the Assad regime and the opposition , but on the Syria that eventually emerges from this crisis . 
`` There are many divisions among the Syrian opposition , but all the militant groups want to bring down the regime , '' Joshua Landis says . 
`` The divisions will not minimize the impact of outside weapons supplies , but they will inhibit any stable government from replacing the present Syrian Army . '' 
So could a further militarisation of the conflict lead to prolonged civil war should the Assad regime collapse ? 
`` Yes , '' Mr Landis answers . 
`` The sectarian and ethnic divisions in Syria are a recipe for prolonged struggle as is the case in Iraq , Palestine-Israel , and Lebanon . 
`` Decapitating the Syrian regime , through outside intervention , '' he believes , will provide no guarantee of ending the killing . 
`` On the contrary , it could well accelerate the killing if there is no unified leadership which can assume control of Syria and no militia that can impose some order in the place of the Syrian national army . 
If the sort of civil war that Iraq experienced breaks out , the killing could well spike . '' 
Steven Heydemann of the United States Institute of Peace shares these concerns , but comes to a rather different conclusion . 
`` The further militarisation of the crisis is inevitable , '' he says . 
`` As the regime escalates its use of force against civilians , the armed opposition will expand , and will come to play an even more central role in the uprising than it has to date . 
`` Arms are flowing into Syria across all of its borders - to varying degrees - and the unwillingness of the West or Turkey to endorse the arming of the opposition will not affect this trend , '' he adds . 
`` The single biggest danger of militarisation '' , he warns , `` is that it empowers and gives legitimacy to the armed opposition and contributes to the marginalisation of the political opposition , which is perceived as ineffective in providing protection to civilians who bear the brunt of regime violence . 
`` Increasingly , it is the men with guns who wield power in areas outside of government control , with very troubling implications for Syria 's future . '' 
The drivers will be events on the ground inside Syria and the reaction to these events from outside the country . 
Soner Cagaptay , a Turkey specialist also at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy , says that the evolution of Ankara 's approach is a case in point . 
`` Initially , Turkey sought to build UN-led action against President Assad . 
When that failed , Turkey turned to the Arab League and Friends of Syria group to build internationally sanctioned policy against Damascus , '' he says . 
`` At the same time , Ankara started to host and coach the Syrian opposition . 
Now , Ankara 's policy is entering a third phase , namely calling for humanitarian access for the civilians . 
This suggests getting relief to the civilians . 
`` But '' , he adds , `` if that policy , too , fails to end the crackdown , the next step will likely be a move into phase four , namely actively arming the opposition in an effort to create a more robust resistance and protection for civilians against Assad 's crackdown . 
`` The final step in Ankara 's Syria policy , if this measure too fails to deliver a concrete victory , against Assad would be calling for a no-fly zone inside Syria to protect civilians . '' 
The value of the Syrian pound has plummeted as a result of sanctions by the EU and US That , as discussed above , could be a prelude to some broader outside military intervention . 
But there is a growing pessimism about what external actors can do . 
So far , diplomatic efforts have delivered little . 
The so-called Friends of Syria - perhaps as accurately dubbed `` the enemies of President Assad '' - have had only modest success in encouraging the Syrian opposition to become more united . 
The plan by Syria special envoy Kofi Annan appears dead in the water . 
And proposals for a new diplomatic initiative involving Russia again seem to offer only limited hope of progress . 
Perhaps more encouraging for President Assad 's opponents is the impact of economic sanctions . 
Joshua Landis says sanctions are devastating the Syrian economy and have led to sharp falls in the value of the Syrian pound . 
`` They are encouraging some people to leave the country and others to take up arms . 
It will not be long before hunger and deprivation begin playing an important role in the disturbances . '' 
Furthermore , Mr Landis says , the sanctions `` are weakening the government 's ability to reassure businessmen that the regime can provide for them '' . 
Over time , this will serve to detach key groups from their support for the regime . 
But economic sanctions require considerable time to take effect and are a blunt tool ; harming the country 's economy inevitably hurts the ordinary man or woman in the street . 
So with no immediate answers on either the economic or diplomatic fronts , each new massacre revives the calls for some kind of military action . 
On one side of the argument , there is the fear that without a clear political framework for Syria 's future , the toppling of President Assad could simply precipitate the country 's fall into bloody chaos . 
Thousands more lives could be lost . 
Outside intervention might sweep away the regime , leaving a situation like post-war Iraq , where sectarian violence dominated and Western troops were drawn into a quagmire . 
Others argue the seeds of this catastrophic future can already be seen . 
As the violence in Syria increases , so does the risk of the crisis spreading to neighbouring Lebanon and perhaps from there turning into a regional conflagration , maybe drawing in Israel or even Turkey . 
Better , according to this argument , to act soon to dismantle the Syrian regime before the contagion spreads . 
Unpalatable intervention may be , but it is even worse , in this view , to stand by and watch the slaughter of innocents . 
What is clear is that there are no easy options . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria crisis : West seeks ` next steps ' Gen Robert Mood : `` We stand ready to work with all parties to assist with bringing an end to the violence '' The US has said it is consulting international partners over steps to take over Syria , after UN observers suspended their activities . 
Norwegian Gen Robert Mood , the head of the UN Stabilisation Mission -LRB- UNSMIS -RRB- , said observers would cease operations because of the escalating violence . 
But he said the mission remained committed to ending the violence . 
The UK foreign secretary said the decision called into question the mission 's viability . 
William Hague blamed the government of President Bashar al-Assad for the worsening situation . 
Jim Muir BBC News , Beirut The announcement came just a day after Gen Mood had rung alarm bells . 
He had warned that the escalation of violence in the past 10 days had limited the ability of the observers to do their job of monitoring , verifying and reporting what was going on , and trying to foster dialogue . 
It marks a recognition that the Kofi Annan peace plan , of which the observer mission is part , has hit the rocks . 
Apart from the general upsurge in violence , the observers have in recent days found themselves physically obstructed , and their vehicles attacked and shot at . 
So the suspension is a clear message to the international community that the situation is untenable , and that concerted action is needed to salvage the Annan peace plan , which remains the only template for a peaceful solution . 
That means pressure being applied to both sides in their conflict , by their outside allies , to halt the violence and enter dialogue - something at the moment that 's hard to imagine . 
At least seven people were killed in Douma , an eastern suburb of the capital Damascus , while at least 18 others died in violence elsewhere , the UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported . 
The opposition Syrian National Council also warned of a looming massacre in Homs which it says is besieged by 30,000 troops and pro-regime militiamen . 
Syria restricts access to foreign media , and reports of killings are difficult to verify . 
US White House spokesman Tommy Vietor urged Syria to abide by international mediator Kofi Annan 's six-point peace plan . 
`` At this critical juncture , we are consulting with our international partners regarding next steps toward a Syrian-led political transition as called for in Security Council resolutions , '' he said . 
Arab League spokesman Ahmad Bin Hilli told the BBC the decision was a temporary one , and the operation could be canceled only by the UN in consultation with the Arab League . 
Announcing the suspension of UNSMIS operations , Gen Mood said the suspension would be `` reviewed on a daily basis '' and that a `` return to normal operations remains our objective '' . 
The UN Security Council 's five permanent members will consider the next steps for the observer mission when Gen Mood briefs them on the situation in Syria on Tuesday . 
The mission 's 298 military observers and 112 civilian staff were sent to Syria to verify the implementation of the Annan plan , which included a ceasefire . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria crisis : Homs shelling stalls evacuation Fighting is leaving many parts of Syria 's towns and cities in ruins Continued shelling in the Syrian city of Homs is stopping Red Cross teams from evacuating scores of civilians . 
Government forces and rebel fighters agreed on Wednesday to a two-hour ceasefire to allow aid workers into the worst affected areas . 
However , correspondents say it may be hours or days before they can enter . 
Meanwhile , a Syrian Mig 21 fighter jet has landed in neighbouring Jordan and the pilot has asked for political asylum , officials in Amman say . 
Syrian state TV only said that contact had been lost with the fighter plane - being flown by an air force colonel - during a training mission . 
The plane landed at the King Hussein air base in Mafraq in the north of Jordan , officials there said . 
In other developments , reports in the British media say the UK and US could grant Syrian President Bashar al-Assad clemency if he joins peace talks . 
The move was discussed on the sidelines of the G20 summit on Mexico , the Guardian newspaper reported . 
On Wednesday , the International Committee of the Red Cross -LRB- ICRC -RRB- said that its teams , along with the Syrian Arab Red Crescent , were poised to evacuate civilians and deliver aid into parts of Homs . 
Waleed Faris , a resident of one area the ICRC was trying to enter , said shelling had been heaviest at dawn on Thursday but there were signs it was subsiding . 
`` Early this morning there was heavy shelling . 
Now I can hear one or two mortars fall every half an hour . 
It is quiet today compared to the past few days , '' he said , quoted by Reuters . 
The ICRC 's regional head of operations , Beatrice Megevand-Roggo , said fighting had been raging for more than 10 days and hundreds of people were trapped . 
Any assistance to violence must be ceased because when you supply military equipment , you help kill people . 
This must stop '' End Quote Ahmed Bin Hilli Arab League deputy secretary general Heavy shelling by government forces in residential areas of the city has killed hundreds of civilians and brought international condemnation . 
The Syrian government blames the deaths on `` terrorists '' backed by foreign powers . 
Water and electricity to many areas have been cut for some time and living conditions are reported to be dire . 
The BBC 's Jim Muir in Beirut says it appears some practical details could also be holding up the mission , such as how many aid vehicles are allowed in and where the wounded will be transferred to . 
It could take hours , or days , to resolve , he says . 
Meanwhile , diplomatic efforts to end the crisis are continuing . 
UK officials quoted by the Guardian said Britain was willing to discuss granting clemency to President Assad if the move would allow a UN-sponsored conference in Geneva on political transition to be launched . 
UK Prime Minister David Cameron and US President Barack Obama are said to have received encouragement from Russian President Vladimir Putin in talks at the G20 in Mexico . 
Correspondents say a deal could protect Mr Assad from prosecution and also allow him safe passage to another country , possibly Iran or Russia . 
Russia , a close ally of Damascus , is a major supplier of arms to Syria , but insists that its shipments do not violate international laws . 
Images from inside Syria show daily funerals of victims of the violence In an interview with the Russian Interfax news agency on Thursday , Arab League deputy secretary general Ahmed Bin Hilli called on Moscow to stop providing military supplies to Syria . 
`` Any assistance to violence must be ceased because when you supply military equipment , you help kill people . 
This must stop , '' he is reported to have said . 
Russia and China have twice blocked UN resolutions condemning the Syrian regime for the violence . 
They argue that pushing a government from power using external pressure is unacceptable . 
Earlier this week , UK officials said a Russian ship believed to be carrying military helicopters to Syria had turned back after its British insurer removed coverage for the vessel . 
The MV Alaed was last seen off the north-west of Scotland . 
The ship 's owners , Russia 's Femco cargo line , later issued a statement denying the vessel was transporting anything illegal . 
Last week , US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton accused Moscow of supplying Syria with attack helicopters . 
President Putin 's spokesman denied this , saying Russia was only maintaining helicopters sold to Damascus `` a very long time ago '' . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria crisis : Powers call for tougher sanctions Clinton : `` Reach out to Russia and China ... demand that they get off the sidelines '' More than 100 countries meeting in Paris have called for tougher sanctions to bring about change in Syria . 
US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton told the allies they should also demand an end to Russian and Chinese support for President Bashar al-Assad 's regime . 
She said Moscow and Beijing had nothing to gain by standing up for Mr Assad , and their actions were intolerable . 
But Russia has rejected her remarks as `` inappropriate '' and not part of a broad international deal reached in Geneva . 
Neither Russia nor China were attending the Paris summit where the international group , known as Friends of Syria , was making a fresh attempt to decide what should be done to end the violence in Syria . 
Earlier meetings in Tunis and Istanbul had also demanded more stringent action . 
French President Francois Hollande , who opened the event , said it was a `` human and political necessity '' to stop the conflict . 
Activists in Syria said that at least 25 people were killed on Friday when Syrian forces seized the northern city of Khan Sheikhoun from rebels . 
Peter Biles BBC News , Paris The Friends of Syria meeting was overshadowed by the news that a former Republican Guard general , Manaf Tlas , had fled Syria and flown to Paris . 
The impact on President Assad 's regime is still difficult to assess , although the US Secretary of State , Hillary Clinton , claimed confidently that `` regime insiders were starting to vote with their feet '' . 
On the diplomatic front , the message from this latest meeting was pretty clear : the international community needs to unite behind Kofi Annan 's plan for Syria , and impose tougher economic sanctions against Damascus . 
However , the absence of Russia and China from the Paris meeting was a major obstacle . 
Without their support , everyone knows there can be little hope of getting a tough new resolution through the UN Security Council and of implementing a successful political transition . 
So Russia and China have been told in no uncertain terms that they can not continue to sit on the sidelines . 
As the Paris meeting progressed , France confirmed that a senior member of Syria 's regime , Brig Gen Manaf Tlas , had deserted , delivering a `` hard blow '' to President Assad . 
It is not clear whether the general , the son of a former defense minister , has defected to the opposition . 
However , the head of the opposition Syrian National Council , Abdel Basset Sayda , told journalists in Paris that he would `` seek cooperation with him '' . 
After the meeting , the 107 countries involved issued a communique urging the UN Security Council to adopt urgently UN-Arab League envoy Kofi Annan 's six point plan under Chapter 7 of the UN Charter . 
Russia and China both hold vetoes in the Security Council . 
Although Chapter 7 allows for military intervention , they said the measures had to be enforced under Article 41 of the charter which refers to economic , diplomatic , travel and communication measures . 
The sanctions working group had recommended that every state freeze senior regime officials ' assets , Mrs Clinton told reporters . 
Transactions with Syria 's commercial and central banks should also be restricted , she said , and there should be an embargo on Syrian oil . 
`` The entire world is now looking to those few nations that still have influence in Damascus . 
They need to step up and use all their leverage to make sure Assad sees the writing on the wall . 
Sitting on the sidelines or , even worse , enabling the regime 's brutality would be a grievous mistake . '' 
Although Russia and China were not explicitly named , Mrs Clinton had spoken earlier of both countries as remaining on the sidelines . 
`` I do n't think Russia and China believe they are paying any price at all , nothing at all , for standing up on behalf of the Assad regime . '' 
But Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Gennady Gatilov said the US secretary of state 's remarks were `` inappropriate '' and worrying . 
He told Interfax news agency that Mrs Clinton had appeared to contradict what had been agreed after a meeting of world powers in Geneva last weekend . 
Moscow and the US were among the countries backing Kofi Annan 's roadmap for political transition , which includes an interim government to enable the Syrian people to live '' independently and democratically '' . 
The Western powers believe that Mr Assad should play no part in Syria 's future , but the roadmap allows Mr Assad an effective veto over any interim candidate he opposes . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Kofi Annan : `` We discussed the need to end the violence '' UN and Arab League envoy to Syria , Kofi Annan , has said he has held `` very candid and constructive '' talks with President Bashar al-Assad in Damascus . 
He told reporters they had `` agreed an approach '' to end the violence , and he would share this with rebel groups . 
The former UN secretary-general later arrived in Iran to discuss the crisis with leaders there . 
On Saturday , Mr Annan admitted his plan to find a political solution to the escalating violence had not succeeded . 
A ceasefire was supposed to begin in mid-April as part of his six-point peace initiative . 
Opposition activists said security forces were shelling parts of the cities of Deir al-Zour , Deraa , Homs , Aleppo and Damascus on Monday . 
More than 100 people were killed on Sunday , mostly civilians , they added . 
After his meeting with President Assad , Mr Annan told reporters in the Syrian capital that they had `` discussed the need to end the violence , and ways and means of doing so '' . 
The president should n't run away from challenge and we have a national challenge now in Syria '' End Quote Bashar al-Assad Syrian President `` We agreed an approach which I will share with the armed opposition , '' he added . 
`` I also stressed the importance of moving ahead with a political dialogue , which the president accepts . '' 
`` President Assad reassured me of the government 's commitment to the six-point plan which , of course , we should move ahead to implement in a much better fashion than has been the situation so far . '' 
A Syrian foreign ministry spokesman , Jihad al-Makdisi , echoed Mr Annan 's comments , writing on Twitter that the talks had been `` constructive and good '' . 
Discussions focused on the implementation of the peace plan , Mr Makdisi added . 
Mr Makdisi said both men considered the recent Action Group on Syria meeting in Geneva an important step towards creating an environment for national dialogue and a political solution to the crisis . 
The Action Group urged all parties to recommit to a sustained cessation of violence and the immediate implementation of Mr Annan 's initiative . 
It also called for the creation of a transitional government formed on basis of mutual consent , which could include officials serving under President Assad and opposition members . 
Mr Annan later flew to Tehran , where he was expected to brief the Iranian government on the outcome of the Action Group meeting , to which it was not invited following objections by the US . 
Arriving on Monday night , he told reporters he was there to `` to see how we can work together '' to find a solution to the conflict . 
Peaceful protests have been continuing in Syria alongside the growing armed conflict On Saturday , Mr Annan told Le Monde newspaper that it was clear that his plan had not succeeded , adding : `` Maybe there is no guarantee that we will succeed . '' 
He said criticism of the international community 's failure to negotiate a political solution had too often focused on Russia , which has opposed foreign intervention . 
`` Russia has influence , but I do n't think that events will be determined by Russia alone . '' 
Moscow has continued to supply weapons to Damascus , noting that there are no UN sanctions prohibiting the trade . 
On Monday , officials in Moscow said Russia would honor its current contracts with Damascus , but announced that it would not agree to any further arms deals until the situation stabilised . 
Saudi Arabia and Qatar have called for the arming and financing the rebel Free Syrian Army -LRB- FSA -RRB- , while the US has said it is providing `` non-lethal '' aid , such as communications assistance . 
With his ceasefire in ruins , Mr Annan is now focusing on trying to win agreement on some kind of political transition , says the BBC 's Jim Muir in neighbouring Lebanon . 
President Bashar al-Assad : `` To stay in this position , in this situation , you must have support '' The opposition insists any transition must include Mr Assad 's departure from power , something he again ruled out in an interview with German television on Sunday . 
`` The president should n't run away from challenge and we have a national challenge now in Syria , '' Mr Assad told ARD . 
`` The president should n't escape the situation , but from the other side you can stay as president , stay in this position only when you have the public support . '' 
Mr Assad also insisted that the fight against `` terrorism '' had to go on , blaming Western and Arab support for the opposition for undermining Mr Annan 's initiative . 
`` The biggest obstacle is that many countries do not even want this plan to succeed so they offer political support and continue to provide the terrorists in Syria with arms and money . '' 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Brig-Gen Manaf Tlas was a childhood friend of President Assad Manaf Tlas , a Syrian general who fled the country last week , has been in contact with members of the opposition , France 's foreign minister has said . 
Laurent Fabius told reporters that `` contact has been made '' , but did not give details . 
He said he could not confirm reports that Tlas , an ex-confidant of the Syrian president , was in France . 
The announcement comes a day after the defection of Nawaf Fares , who had served as Syria 's ambassador to Iraq . 
Iraqi officials have said Mr Fares , who has publicly declared his support for the opposition , is in Qatar . 
Meanwhile , diplomatic efforts are continuing in an attempt to end the conflict , which activists say has killed some 16,000 people . 
Brig-Gen Tlas , the son of former defense minister Mustapha Tlas , has not spoken publicly since leaving Syria . 
Speaking to reporters on Thursday , Mr Fabius said `` there is some closeness between the opposition and this general ... contact has been made . '' 
Jim Muir BBC News , Beirut The defection of Nawaf Fares is an embarrassing blow to the Syrian regime , and a clear sign of the stress the conflict is generating , but it does not necessarily herald a spate of similar desertions . 
The government 's discomfort was reflected in an official statement from the foreign ministry in Damascus , lamely announcing that the ambassador had been `` relieved of his duties '' . 
US and Syrian opposition officials seized on Mr Fares 's resignation as a sign that the regime is crumbling . 
But the defection of the deputy oil minister earlier this year did not trigger a cascade of similar moves by officials , as he urged . 
As with the case of Manaf Tlas , who fled the country last week , the ambassador may have had specific reasons for turning . 
He is a Sunni tribal leader whose area around Deir al-Zour has been heavily battered by government forces recently , as had Gen Tlas 's mainly Sunni hometown Rastan . 
The defections are clearly a sign of the times , but given the gravity of what is happening , it is surprising they have been so few and far between . 
Last week , it emerged that Brig-Gen Tlas had escaped Syria via Turkey , in what correspondents described as a significant blow to the Assad regime . 
But it was unclear whether the general would support President Bashar al-Assad 's opponents in their efforts to overthrow the leader . 
Meanwhile , Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshiyar Zebari said Mr Fares , who defected on Wednesday , was in Qatar , a country sympathetic to the rebels . 
Mr Fares , the first senior diplomat to abandon Mr Assad , has urged other politicians and military figures to follow suit . 
Syria responded by formally dismissing Mr Fares from his post . 
His defection was first reported by Qatar-based TV channel al-Jazeera . 
He confirmed his decision in a statement broadcast both on TV and on Facebook . 
With Syrian revolutionary flags behind him , he read out the statement saying he was resigning both as Syria 's ambassador to Iraq and as a member of the ruling Baath Party . 
`` I call on all party members to do the same because the regime has transformed it into a tool to oppress the people and their aspirations to freedom and dignity . 
`` I announce , from this moment on , that I am siding with the people 's revolution in Syria , my natural place in these difficult circumstances which Syria is going through . '' 
Head of Sunni Uqaydat tribe , straddling Syria 's eastern border with Iraq Served as top Baath Party official in Deir al-Zour province Appointed Baghdad ambassador 16 Sept 2008 First Syrian envoy to Iraq for nearly three decades Resigns from Baath Party and as ambassador 11 July 2012 Meanwhile , activists reported fresh shelling of an area of Damascus . 
Mortar rounds were said to have been fired into orchards in Kafr Souseh in an apparent offensive against rebels . 
Independent confirmation is impossible , as journalists ' freedom of movement is heavily restricted . 
Syria has been convulsed by internal conflict since protests against President Assad began early last year . 
The protests turned into an armed rebellion and thousands of people have been killed . 
Nawaf Fares announces that he is siding with the revolution in Syria Western nations are pressing the UN to threaten Damascus with sanctions as it considers renewing the mandate for its observer mission in Syria which expires on 20 July . 
They want a 10-day ultimatum to be part of a Security Council resolution on the future of the UN 's observer mission in the country . 
A new resolution must be passed before the mission 's mandate ends on Friday next week . 
The mission had a 90-day remit to monitor a truce , but fighting has continued largely unabated . 
The truce formed part of a six-point peace plan brokered by UN-Arab League envoy Kofi Annan , who has called for `` clear consequences '' for the Syrian government and rebels if the ceasefire is not observed . 
Russia has suggested a 90-day extension . 
But Western states say a simple rollover of the mission is not enough . 
A draft resolution has been circulated threatening Damascus with sanctions within 10 days , if it fails to stop using heavy weapons and pull back its troops from towns and cities . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Sergei Lavrov : `` I believe this is counterproductive and quite a dangerous approach '' Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has said Western attempts to get Moscow to discuss sanctions against Syria contain `` elements of blackmail '' . 
Mr Lavrov said the West had threatened to end a UN observer mission if Russia opposed its draft resolution . 
Peace envoy Kofi Annan is due in Moscow , and is expected to urge Russia to put more pressure on Syria 's leaders to begin a political transition . 
Russia has strong ties with Syria and has vetoed foreign intervention calls . 
It has circulated its own draft resolution calling for the extension of the observer mission 's mandate , which runs out on Friday . 
It does not contain any threat of sanctions against Damascus . 
Mr Annan 's visit comes amid reports of some of the heaviest fighting in the conflict so far around Damascus . 
The BBC 's Jim Muir says the clashes seem to be creeping ever closer to the heart of the capital and the center of the government 's power . 
Steve Rosenberg BBC News , Moscow There have been mixed signals from Moscow in recent weeks , with some suggestions that Russia 's support for the Syrian government may be waning . 
Today , though , Sergei Lavrov dispelled the rumors . 
Just a few minutes into his press conference , it became obvious that Moscow 's position had n't changed an inch . 
Russia refuses to lay the principal blame for the violence on President Assad ; it is up to both sides in the conflict to stop fighting and start negotiating . 
The Russians are clearly fed up of Western criticism that Moscow could - but wo n't - push President Assad from power . 
The message from Mr Lavrov : it 's `` unrealistic '' to expect Russia to do that , because there are still many Syrians who support President Assad . 
And when Russia 's foreign minister accused the West of trying to `` blackmail '' Russia into supporting a tougher UN Security Council Resolution , he revealed the chasm between East and West over Syria . 
Judging from Mr Lavrov 's words , Kofi Annan will struggle to persuade Moscow to adopt a tougher tone with Damascus . 
Activists and residents reported that tanks and mortars were used on the southern edge of the city , in areas like Tadhamon and Midan and around nearby Palestinian refugee camps . 
A convoy of army reinforcements was reported to have been attacked by rebels in Kfar Sousa to the west , leading to further clashes there . 
Residents were said to be fleeing some areas , while in other parts of the city protesters blocked motorways with burning tyres . 
Mr Lavrov said the West had told Russia to back a draft resolution on sanctions or it would `` refuse to extend the mandate of the observer mission '' . 
It was `` not right '' to say that pressure should only be brought on the government of President Bashar al-Assad and not the opposition to end the conflict , he added . 
`` We do not support Assad , '' he said . 
`` We support what has been agreed by all sides . '' 
But he said it was unrealistic to expect Russia to persuade Mr Assad to step down . 
`` He will not leave power . 
And this is not because we are protecting him but because there is a very significant part of the Syrian population behind him , '' he said . 
Mr Annan is expected to meet Russian President Vladimir Putin and Mr Lavrov during two days of talks . 
Mr Annan is expected to ask Mr Lavrov to put pressure on the Syrian authorities to begin a political transition . 
The BBC 's Steve Rosenberg in Moscow says Mr Annan knows Russia 's role is crucial for the success of his peace initiative , but there is little sign that the Kremlin is ready to do what he says . 
The BBC 's Jim Muir says fighting has intensified in many parts of Syria Part of the reason for this is that the Russians fear even greater chaos and bloodshed post-Assad , he says . 
But Moscow is also deeply suspicious of the West and reluctant to endorse regime change , our correspondent adds , although this could change if it decides its own economic and geopolitical interests are better served by Mr Assad going . 
UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon is also expected to raise the Syrian issue with Chinese leaders when he arrives in Beijing for a China-Africa summit . 
China has joined Russia in vetoing several Western-backed UN draft resolutions calling for tougher action . 
Meanwhile , the Syrian government has denied that it used heavy weapons in its attack on the village of Tremseh last Thursday . 
Syrian-led political process to address the aspirations and concerns of the Syrian people 2 . 
End to violence by all sides ; army troops to stop using heavy weapons and withdraw to barracks 3 . 
Parties to allow humanitarian aid 4 . 
Authorities to free political detainees 5 . 
Authorities to ensure freedom of movement for journalists 6 . 
Authorities to allow peaceful demonstrations Activists initially described fighting in Tremseh , which is near the city of Hama , as a massacre of dozens of civilians , but later accounts suggested most of the dead were armed rebels . 
UN observers at the scene have said Syrian forces used heavy artillery , tanks and helicopters , but Damascus has denied those allegations and says just two civilians had been killed . 
The accusations , if proved , would mean Damascus had broken an agreement it made with Mr Annan . 
Separately Morocco has become the latest of many countries in the region and around the world to expel its Syrian ambassador . 
The country 's foreign ministry said in a statement that Nabih Ismail had been declared persona non grata . 
Shortly afterwards Syria expelled Morocco 's ambassador in Damascus . 
Some 16,000 people are thought to have been killed since the uprising against Mr Assad 's regime began in March 2011 . 
Are you in Syria or do you have relatives there ? 
What is your experience of the unrest in the country ? 
If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on . 
In some cases a selection of your comments will be published , displaying your name as you provide it and location , unless you state otherwise . 
Your contact details will never be published . 
When sending us pictures , video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others , take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws . 
Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


The following is a timeline of key events in the Syrian conflict . 
Beginning with the start of the uprising in March 2011 , it charts major attacks on government targets as well as the worst cases of killings of civilians . 
Efforts by the members of the international community to influence and bring an end to the conflict are also mentioned . 
Demonstrators demanded the release of political prisoners , but some were shot dead by security forces , triggering unrest that gradually spread throughout the country . 
The Syrian uprising , then a month old , experienced its bloodiest day so far on 22 April when 72 protesters were killed by security forces firing on crowds . 
Many of the dead were in the southern village of Ezra , near Deraa and in a suburb of Damascus . 
Jisr al-Shughour , 3-6 June 2011 In June 2011 , the Syrian government announced that 120 security personnel had been killed in the north-western town of Jisr al-Shughour . 
The figure may have been inflated but it was a major attack and , as the BBC 's correspondent Jim Muir said at the time , it showed that the government was facing an armed uprising rather than mass peaceful protests . 
Opposition groups formed the Syrian National Council and pledge to overthrow President Bashar al-Assad . 
The Arab League voted to suspend Syria , accusing it of failing to implement an Arab peace plan , and imposed sanctions . 
Jabal al-Zawiya , 19-20 December 2011 Villages in the area of Jabal al-Zawiya in Idlib province were the site of a massacre of army defectors . 
Opposition activists said around 70 soldiers were mown down by machine-guns on 19 December after hundreds fled their positions between the villages of Kafrouaid and Kansafra . 
This was later backed up by eyewitnesses and a report by Human Rights Watch . 
The London-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said a further 111 people - also mostly army defectors - were hunted down by the army and killed the next day in an `` organised massacre '' . 
Syrian forces began shelling the restive city of Homs on 3 February , in what was to become a month-long bombardment . 
Early reports talked of as many as 200 deaths , but one of the main activist groups later revised its confirmed number down to 55 . 
The BBC 's Paul Wood , who was in Homs traveling with fighters from the Free Syrian Army , described a city under siege . 
The bodies of 45 people , mostly women and children , were found in the Karm el-Zeytoun neighborhood of Homs on 12 March . 
New York , 21 March 2012 The UN Security Council backed UN-Arab League envoy Kofi Annan 's peace plan to end all violence , provide humanitarian relief and secure a peaceful transition of power . 
The Syrian government accepted the plan six days later . 
The first UN observers , a group of just six , began their work to monitor the situation on the ground as part of the Annan peace plan . 
Their numbers increased to nearly 300 over the following weeks , but with violence continuing to escalate they suspended their operations on 16 June . 
The largest of a series of attacks blamed on suicide bombers in the capital , in which 55 people died after explosions outside the military intelligence building . 
Many of the attacks have targeted security facilities . 
The government blames anti-regime forces and Islamist groups linked to al-Qaeda , but the opposition says the attacks are staged in an attempt to discredit them . 
The village of Taldou , in the Houla region near Homs , witnessed one of the worst massacres in Syria 's uprising . 
UN observers confirmed that 108 people were killed , most of them women and children . 
Some had been killed by shell fire , but the majority had been shot at point-blank range or stabbed . 
The government blamed terrorists , but survivors and human rights groups pointed the finger at the army and shabiha militiamen allied to the government . 
Manaf Tlas , a general from a Sunni family close to the Assads , fled Syria , in the highest-level desertion of the regime so far . 
Two weeks later , he was confirmed to be in France . 
Opposition activists and witnesses said army tanks bombarded the village for several hours before pro-government militiamen swept in , shooting and stabbing victims at close range . 
They reported that as many as 220 people were killed , including a number of rebel fighters . 
The Syrian government said at least 50 people were killed in Tremseh , but it blamed `` armed terrorist groups '' . 
Defense Minister Daoud Rajiha and his deputy Assef Shawkat , President Assad 's brother-in-law , are killed in a suicide attack during a high-level meeting at the national security headquarters , Syrian state TV says . 
General Hassan Turkomani , an assistant to the vice-president , is also killed in the attack . 
The interior minister and national security chief were said to be injured in the attack , which some analysts describe as a turning point in the fate of the Assad regime . 
The rebel Free Syrian Army -LRB- FSA -RRB- and a jihadist group calling itself Lord of the Martyrs Brigade both said they were behind the bombing . 
Reports say the bomber was working as a bodyguard for members of the inner circle . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria crisis : Fighting in Aleppo amid rebel offensive A fierce fight began for control of Aleppo after a major offensive by rebels Fierce fighting is taking place in Syria 's second city , Aleppo , say reports , as rebel fighters try to take control from the army . 
Pro-government troops are bombarding the city with shells and rocket fire , and there are reports that helicopter gunships are being used . 
Activists say at least 33 people have been killed across the country on Tuesday so far . 
Nine of those are reported to have died during a prison revolt in Aleppo . 
Syrian state television says the government has now regained control of most areas of Damascus which had been captured by rebels last week . 
It broadcast footage showing soldiers apparently securing and checking heavily shelled suburbs in southern Damascus and the bodies of `` terrorists '' it says were killed . 
But a fierce battle is taking place for control of Aleppo , Syria 's commercial center , after rebels launched a major offensive at the weekend . 
Heavy shelling and rocket fire were reported overnight and into Tuesday as the government attempted to take back the seized districts . 
Residents and activists told Reuters news agency the two sides were battling close to the historic Old City . 
The British-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said helicopter gunships had fired on several districts of the city . 
The BBC 's Wyre Davies , on the Turkish border with Syria , says losing Aleppo would be a serious blow to the government so it is determined to use its far superior weaponry to halt the rebels ' advance . 
Activists say at least nine people have died in the revolt in Aleppo prison , where security forces are reported to have opened fire and used tear gas on detainees . 
The general sentiment is that everyone here in Aleppo is terrified '' Government officials had previously denied there had been a defection . 
The activist group the Local Co-Ordination Committee -LRB- LCC -RRB- said there was a `` catastrophic humanitarian situation '' inside the Homs jail . 
The group called for international help to prevent `` mass executions '' of prisoners . 
The Observatory , which said two prisoners were killed at the jail on Saturday , said it had received reports that a group of judges had been sent to the jail to investigate the uprising , which began over the weekend . 
`` It is possible their presence might lead to summary executions , '' the head of the Observatory , Rami Abdel Rahman , told AFP . 
The group says that , on Monday , more than 116 people were killed across Syria , and that at least 33 had died by early afternoon on Tuesday . 
More than 1,260 civilians , rebels and government soldiers have died since the fighting in Damascus and elsewhere intensified on 15 July , it says . 
Foreign journalists work under intense restrictions in Syria so reports by both sides are hard to verify . 
President Assad named internal security head Gen Ali Mamlouk as his new head of national security , replacing Hisham Bekhtyar , one of four senior officials killed in the 18 July bombing in Damascus A commander of Iran 's Revolutionary Guards , Brig Gen Masoud Jazayeri , said `` decisive blows '' would be struck against Syria 's enemies , `` particularly the hated Arabs '' , if they intervened in the conflict , Iran 's semi-official Fars news agency reported . 
The surge in fighting in Syria coincides with widespread concern over Syria 's stockpile of chemical weapons . 
Initially three weapons production plants , including Al Safir southeast of Aleppo , which has been redeveloped in recent years Chemical plants said to be active near Homs and Hama from early 1990s Suspected stocks of mustard gas , sarin gas and VX nerve gas from late 1990s Source : Janes , US state department , International Institute for Strategic Studies Both the US and UN gave clear warnings to Damascus after an official said on Monday that while such weapons would not be deployed inside Syria they could be used in response to external aggression . 
Israel and the US are concerned the weapons could fall into the hands of Lebanon 's Shia Islamist group Hezbollah , allied to Syria 's President Bashar al-Assad , and be used to threaten Israel . 
A senior Israeli defense official , Amos Gilad , said the weapons were `` under the full control of the regime '' , Reuters news agency reports . 
The FSA said in a statement on Tuesday that the government had begun moving its chemical weapons stockpile to airports on Syria 's border a few months ago , in an attempt to put pressure on the international community . 
On Sunday , the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported that at least 19,106 people had been killed since March 2011 . 
The UN said in May that at least 10,000 people had been killed . 
Syria blames the violence on foreign-backed `` armed terrorist gangs '' . 
In June , the Syrian government reported that 6,947 Syrians had died , including at least 3,211 civilians and 2,566 security forces personnel . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Iranian pilgrims abducted near Shia shrine in Syria The Iranian pilgrims were reportedly abducted near a shrine in the suburb of Sayyida Zainab Some 48 Iranian pilgrims have been kidnapped from a bus in the vicinity of a shrine near the Syrian capital Damascus , reports say . 
Iranian diplomats blamed the abduction , from close to the Shia shrine of Sayyida Zainab , on `` armed groups '' . 
Syrian state television later gave the same account of the incident . 
Meanwhile , fresh fighting has been reported around Damascus , and in the northern city of Aleppo , where rebels are trying to secure their positions . 
The Iranian consul in Damascus said the whereabouts of the abducted pilgrims was known . 
Syrian state-run news agency Sana said the Iranians had been kidnapped by `` armed terrorist groups '' and that Syrian authorities were `` working to handle the situation '' . 
Thousands of Iranians travel each year to Syria to visit the pilgrimage site in the mostly Shia district of Sayyida Zainab , which has seen heavy fighting in recent weeks . 
There have been several other reports of groups of Iranian pilgrims being kidnapped in Syria in recent months , with most later being freed . 
In May , 11 Lebanese Shia pilgrims were abducted in Syria while returning from Iran . 
The government announced three days after their capture that they had been released but there have since been conflicting reports in Lebanese media as to their whereabouts . 
The incident sparked violence across Lebanon , where the crisis in Syria has heightened sectarian tensions . 
Meanwhile , fresh fighting was reported in Syria 's two biggest cities on Saturday . 
Most areas of Aleppo where rebels are entrenched have been bombarded by government forces and clashes have been reported in several districts . 
Video footage posted by activists showed a military jet flying over what they said was the rebel-held quarter of Salah al-Din followed by a loud explosion . 
Incrementally , the rebels are increasing the size of the area they hold inside Aleppo '' End Quote Kim Sengupta UK journalist in Aleppo Activists reported clashes in several areas too , including around the officers ' club and a political security headquarters . 
Government forces seem to now be pushing harder in the crucial battle for Aleppo , the BBC 's Jim Muir in Beirut reports . 
Syrian state television reported that troops had inflicted huge losses on what it called `` terrorist mercenaries '' in Salah al-Din and in other nearby areas too , our correspondent adds . 
Kim Sengupta of the UK 's Independent newspaper earlier told the BBC from Aleppo that there are two front lines in the city , one in Salah al-Din and one near Aleppo 's ancient iron gate . 
There have been skirmishes in which rebels have done rather well , he says , seizing three police stations and retaking a fourth on Friday , and rebels are `` incrementally '' increasing the size of the area they hold . 
The rebels have `` remarkable '' defense capability in Salah al-Din where government tanks had been trying to enter , but as an area full of narrow twisting lanes , it is perfect for guerrilla warfare , he adds . 
However , the full thrust of the armor and the artillery from the regime side has not been seen yet , he adds . 
The battle for the key strategic city of Aleppo has been fierce in recent days The focus of the fighting is also on the southern edge of Damascus where shelling and gunfire were reported from the Tadamon quarter , despite it having been earlier stormed by government forces , says the BBC 's Jim Muir , reporting from Beirut . 
Shooting and explosions were also being heard in some central parts of the capital , and activists reported clashes too on the western side of the city , in and around Dumar . 
A brigadier general who refused to give his name told reporters visiting Tadamon that it had been retaken and that the military now controlled the entire capital , the AFP news agency reports . 
Earlier , Russia and China condemned a UN General Assembly resolution passed on Friday which criticised the Security Council for failing to halt the violence in Syria . 
Moscow 's UN envoy , Vitaly Churkin , told reporters the resolution was one-sided and supported the armed opposition . 
Western nations praised the resolution , which passed by 133 votes to 12 with 31 abstentions . 
It criticises both the UN 's own Security Council and the government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad for its use of violence . 
The assembly debated the resolution , which was proposed by Saudi Arabia , shortly after the resignation of UN-Arab League envoy Kofi Annan and the failure of his six-point peace plan . 
Activists say more than 20,000 people - mostly civilians - have died in 17 months of unrest . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Moscow 's UN envoy , Vitaly Churkin , told reporters the resolution was one-sided and supported the armed opposition . 
Western nations praised the resolution , which passed by 133 votes to 12 with 31 abstentions . 
It criticises both the UN 's own Security Council and the government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad . 
The assembly debated the resolution , which was proposed by Saudi Arabia , shortly after the resignation of UN-Arab League envoy Kofi Annan and the failure of his six-point peace plan . 
In Syria , government forces backed by tanks launched a new assault in Damascus while shelling continued in the country 's largest city , Aleppo . 
Barbara Plett BBC UN correspondent The resolution condemning the Syrian government and calling for a political transition is not legally binding , but its Arab and Western sponsors see the overwhelming `` Yes '' vote as proof that they have world opinion behind them , despite the deadlock in the Security Council , which they harshly criticised . 
Even so , the massive majority came at a price : the text had to be watered down in an attempt to win over many states , dropping explicit calls for Bashar al-Assad to step down and for member states to support Arab League sanctions . 
And even though the opposition was small , it again included China and Russia . 
Moscow opposed the resolution as unbalanced , making clear that it believes the UN is taking one side in a civil war . 
So the General Assembly intervention will do nothing to bridge the fundamental divides in the Security Council , and may widen them . 
Activists say more than 20,000 people - mostly civilians - have died in 17 months of unrest . 
Russia voted `` no '' on Friday along with China , Syria , Cuba , Iran , North Korea , Belarus , Bolivia , Nicaragua , Burma , Zimbabwe and Venezuela . 
Among those states abstaining were India and Pakistan . 
Mr Churkin told the UN that the Saudi-drafted resolution concealed `` blatant support for the armed opposition '' . 
He said his country regretted the resolution which `` only aggravates confrontational approaches to the resolution of the Syrian crisis , doing nothing to facilitate dialogue between the parties '' . 
It was `` written as if no armed opposition existed at all '' , he added . 
Mr Churkin pointed out that the resolution called on the UN envoy to work towards a transition to democracy in Syria , yet the envoy 's task had been to arrange dialogue , not regime change . 
Chinese deputy UN ambassador Wang Min said pressuring Syria 's government would `` cause further escalation of the turmoil '' and allow the crisis to spread to neighbouring countries . 
Russia and China have blocked three attempts in the UN Security Council to impose sanctions against Damascus . 
Syria 's UN ambassador Bashar Jaafari spoke of '' blatant hypocrisy '' by those who co-sponsored the draft resolution Syria 's UN ambassador , Bashar Jaafari , suggested Saudi Arabia and fellow resolution sponsor Qatar were trying to act as both `` a fireman and an arsonist at the same time '' . 
The resolution expresses `` grave concern '' at the escalation of violence in Syria and deplores `` the failure of the Security Council to agree on measures to ensure the compliance of Syrian authorities with its decisions '' . 
It says it is up to the Syrian government to take the `` first step in the cessation of violence '' . 
Susan Rice , the US envoy at the UN , welcomed the passing of the resolution . 
The UN General Assembly `` sent a strong message today : the overwhelming majority of nations stand with the people of Syria '' , she wrote on Twitter . 
Britain 's UN ambassador Sir Mark Lyall Grant said a `` colossal majority '' had supported the resolution . 
UK Foreign Secretary William Hague said : `` This resolution ... sends a clear signal that the world stands together in condemning the Syrian regime 's systematic human rights violations and in calling for accountability . '' 
During the assembly 's session , UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said the conflict in Syria had become a `` proxy war '' and called on powers to overcome their rivalries in an effort to end the violence . 
Fighting raged in the Tadamon district of Damascus for a second day on Friday , with opposition activists saying government troops had regained control of the area . 
Eyewitnesses and activists say government forces used dozens of tanks and armored vehicles to attack what had been seen as the rebels ' last stronghold in the capital . 
The result of the vote was announced by UN General Assembly President , Nassir Abdulaziz al-Nasser Troops killed `` several '' rebels and wounded many more , Syrian state media reported . 
`` The bombs are back , I have been hearing explosions all day , '' a resident of central Damascus told the Associated Press news agency , asking to remain anonymous for fear of reprisals . 
Fighting has also continued in Aleppo , where government forces have been trying to reclaim areas seized by the Free Syrian Army -LRB- FSA -RRB- in the past two weeks . 
Hundreds of people gathered in the al-Shaar neighborhood to chant `` The people want the execution of Bashar ! '' 
and `` The people want freedom and peace '' , AFP news agency reporter at the scene says . 
UN peacekeeping chief Herve Ladsous told the Security Council that UN observers in Aleppo were seeing `` a considerable build-up of military means , where we have reason to believe that the main battle is about to start '' . 
Are you in Syria ? 
Send us your comments and experiences using the form below . 
Send your pictures and videos to yourpics@bbc.co.uk or text them to 61124 -LRB- UK -RRB- or +447624800100 -LRB- International -RRB- . 
If you have a large file you can upload here . 
If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on . 
In some cases a selection of your comments will be published , displaying your name as you provide it and location , unless you state otherwise . 
Your contact details will never be published . 
When sending us pictures , video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others , take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws . 
Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syrian crisis : Fresh fighting hits Damascus and Aleppo Most of the areas of the biggest cities where rebels are entrenched have come under bombardment Fresh fighting has been reported around Syria 's capital , Damascus , and in the northern city of Aleppo , where rebels are trying to secure their positions . 
Most areas of Aleppo where rebels are entrenched have been bombarded by government forces and clashes have been reported in several districts . 
The violence comes after a UN General Assembly vote to criticise the Security Council for failing to act on Syria . 
Meanwhile , Iranian state media say 48 Iranian pilgrims have been kidnapped . 
The pilgrims were abducted from a bus near the Sayeda Zeinab shrine outside Damascus , which is holy to Shia Muslims , Iranian media reports say . 
Iranian officials blamed `` terrorists '' for the abduction . 
In Damascus , fighting was reported in the Tadamon district on the southern edge of the city , which was earlier stormed by government forces . 
Shooting and explosions were also heard in central parts of the capital , as well as in western areas , in and around Dumar . 
Video footage posted by activists showed a military jet flying over what they said was the rebel-held quarter of Salah al-Din in Aleppo followed by a loud explosion . 
Incrementally , the rebels are increasing the size of the area they hold inside Aleppo '' End Quote Kim Sengupta UK journalist in Aleppo Activists reported clashes in several areas , including around the officers ' club and a security headquarters . 
But the regime has yet to unleash a concerted offensive to drive rebels out of Aleppo . 
UN officials believe the government is building up its forces for just such a campaign to regain control of a city it can not afford to lose , the BBC 's Jim Muir in neighbouring Lebanon reports . 
Kim Sengupta of the UK 's Independent newspaper told the BBC from Aleppo that there are two front lines in the city , one in Salah al-Din and one near the ancient iron gate . 
There have been skirmishes in which rebels have done rather well , he says , seizing three police stations and retaking a fourth on Friday , and rebels are `` incrementally '' increasing the size of the area they hold . 
The rebels have `` remarkable '' defense capability in Salah al-Din where government tanks had been trying to enter , but as an area full of narrow twisting lanes , it is perfect for guerrilla warfare , he adds . 
However , the full thrust of the armor and the artillery from the regime side has not been seen yet , he adds . 
Earlier , Russia and China condemned the UN resolution passed on Friday , saying that it undermined peace efforts . 
Moscow 's UN envoy , Vitaly Churkin , told reporters the resolution was one-sided and supported the armed opposition . 
Western nations praised the resolution , which passed by 133 votes to 12 with 31 abstentions . 
It criticises both the UN 's own Security Council and the government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad for its use of violence . 
The assembly debated the resolution , which was proposed by Saudi Arabia , shortly after the resignation of UN-Arab League envoy Kofi Annan and the failure of his six-point peace plan . 
Activists say more than 20,000 people - mostly civilians - have died in 17 months of unrest . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Syria crisis : Arab League postpones Syria talks As the fighting goes on , the UN and Arab League are debating how best to engage with Syria Arab League foreign ministers have postponed a meeting in Saudi Arabia to debate the crisis in Syria . 
The ministers had been due to discuss a new envoy to Syria to replace Kofi Annan , who resigned earlier this month . 
The US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has said the US and Turkey are working together on detailed plans to support the Syrian opposition . 
Fighting has continued in the Syrian capital , Damascus , and the second city of Aleppo . 
Speaking on a visit to Istanbul , Mrs Clinton said both the US and Turkey were making preparations to respond to the possible collapse of President Bashar al-Assad 's government , the use of chemical weapons and increases in the number of cross-border refugees . 
Mr Annan resigned from his position as UN-Arab League envoy to Syria earlier this month , after his proposed six-point peace plan failed to come into effect and violence escalated . 
His replacement had been due to top the agenda for foreign ministers who had been due to gather on Sunday in the Saudi city of Jeddah . 
But the Arab League 's deputy secretary general , Ahmed Ben Helli , told reporters the meeting has been postponed , and no new date had yet been set . 
He did not say why the meeting had been delayed . 
The man tipped by diplomats to be given the job is veteran Algerian diplomat Lakhdar Brahimi . 
The mandate of the United Nations observer mission in Syria - which now comprises some 150 observers - is due to run out in a week 's time . 
But UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon says there still need to be people on the ground to make impartial assessments of the military situation . 
Hillary Clinton : `` We are continuing to increase pressure from the outside '' The Security Council will discuss the issue on Thursday , but there is little consensus on the council , with Syrian ally Russia calling for an extension and the US sceptical about prolonging the mission . 
Instead , the US is taking steps outside the structures of the UN to support Syrian opposition groups , such as the setting up of the working group with Turkey announced by Mrs Clinton in her meeting with her Turkish counterpart Ahmet Davutoglu on Saturday . 
`` Our number-one goal is to hasten the end of the bloodshed and the Assad regime , '' she said . 
`` Our intelligence services , our military have very important responsibilities and roles to play so we are going to be setting up a working group to do exactly that . '' 
A `` range of contingencies '' was discussed , including the possible use of chemical weapons by the Assad government , Mrs Clinton added . 
Meanwhile , inside Syria , fighting is continuing . 
Syrian state TV said authorities were hunting `` terrorists '' who had set off a bomb in Marjeh , an exclusive district of Damascus near the central bank , and who were `` shooting at random to spark panic among citizens '' . 
At about the same time , another blast went off near Tishrin Stadium close by , reported state news agency Sana . 
Hours later , Sana reported that a bus had been attacked in a Damascus suburb , said AP news agency , with six passengers from the central province of Hama killed . 
It blamed the attack on the `` terrorists '' . 
Violence erupted again between the rebel Free Syrian Army -LRB- FSA -RRB- and government forces in the country 's largest city , Aleppo . 
Activists said the army pounded areas south-west of Salah al-Din , from which the rebels retreated on Thursday . 
Reports from Syria are difficult to confirm because of restrictions on reporters working there . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Hillary Clinton and Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu met Syrian refugees in Istanbul US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has said a working group will be set up with Turkey to plan a joint response to the Syrian crisis . 
She said after talks in Istanbul that she had discussed with Turkey 's foreign minister how best to support opposition to President Bashar al-Assad 's rule . 
The US , she said , was also increasing aid for Syrian refugees . 
Numbers of civilians fleeing violence in Syria have surged , according to the United Nations . 
Turkey , like all of Syria 's neighbors , is dealing with a growing humanitarian crisis as thousands of refugees flood across the border . 
Rebels in the northern city of Aleppo say they are preparing a counter-attack after withdrawing from the strategic south-west district of Salah al-Din under heavy bombardment . 
Turkey is currently supporting more than 50,000 Syrian refugees , with more arriving every day . 
In another development , Arab foreign ministers are to meet in the Saudi city of Jeddah on Sunday to discuss the Syrian crisis , Egyptian state TV reports . 
Mrs Clinton told reporters that she and her Turkish counterpart , Ahmet Davutoglu , had discussed how to support the opposition in Syria in its `` efforts to end the violence and begin the transition to a free , democratic Syria without Assad '' . 
US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton : `` We are continuing to increase pressure from the outside '' `` Our number-one goal is to hasten the end of the bloodshed and the Assad regime , '' she said . 
`` Our intelligence services , our military have very important responsibilities and roles to play so we are going to be setting up a working group to do exactly that . '' 
A `` range of contingencies '' was discussed , including the possible use of chemical weapons by the Assad government , Mrs Clinton added . 
She said two million people were in need of humanitarian assistance in Syria . 
Mrs Clinton announced an extra $ 5.5 m -LRB- # 3.5 m -RRB- in help for displaced Syrians in Turkey , saying this would bring US aid to Syria to $ 82m . 
The US secretary of state later held talks with Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and President Abdullah Gul , before leaving to return to Washington . 
Gunfire and bomb were reported in several parts of Damascus on Saturday . 
Syrian TV said security forces were pursuing a `` terrorist group '' after two bombs were detonated in central districts of the capital . 
One resident told Reuters news agency there was also fighting near the central bank . 
On the northern outskirts of the city , the army pounded al-Tal district where the government says gunmen kidnapped three journalists from a pro-regime TV station on Friday , AP news agency reports . 
Violence erupted again between the rebel Free Syrian Army -LRB- FSA -RRB- and government forces in the country 's largest city , Aleppo . 
Activists said the army pounded areas south-west of Salah al-Din , from which the rebels retreated on Thursday . 
On Friday journalists from Reuters news agency reported seeing residents fleeing Aleppo , taking advantage of a lull in the fighting . 
Such reports are difficult to confirm , because of restrictions on reporters working in Syria . 
President Assad is facing strong international pressure to step aside despite 17 months of anti-government protests and escalating violence . 
He has suffered a string of high-status defections , including his former Prime Minister Riad Hijab , who fled to Jordan earlier this week . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Bouthaina Shaaban , right , attended President Assad 's meeting with Kofi Annan in July The Chinese foreign ministry said Bouthaina Shaaban would meet Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi later . 
The ministry said it was part of its effort to implement the UN 's six-point peace plan . 
China has twice vetoed UN resolutions against the Assad regime . 
Meanwhile , UN humanitarian chief Valerie Amos has arrived in Syria to assess the flow of emergency aid . 
She is expected to ask for more visas for foreign aid workers as the Syrian Arab Red Crescent struggles to distribute food . 
The UN says an estimated two million Syrian civilians have now been affected by the crisis and more than one million have fled their homes . 
Tens of thousands of people have fled across Syria 's borders into Turkey , Jordan , Lebanon and Iraq amid continuing violence across the country . 
In another development , foreign ministers of the Islamic Co-operation Organisation -LRB- OIC -RRB- have called for Syria to be suspended from the 57-nation bloc at an emergency two-day summit in Mecca , Saudi Arabia , which starts on Tuesday . 
Only ministers from Algeria and Iran , which is regarded as Syria 's closest ally , were against the recommendation , reports say . 
`` We certainly do not agree with the suspension of any OIC member , '' Iranian Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Salehi said after a preliminary meeting in the city of Jeddah on Monday . 
`` We have to look for other ways , means and mechanisms for resolving conflicts and crises , '' he said . 
Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Qin Gang said in a statement that China had always `` actively balanced its work between the Syrian government and the opposition '' . 
He repeated China 's call for the `` practical implementation '' of former UN envoy Kofi Annan 's peace plan - now widely considered defunct - and for `` an immediate ceasefire '' . 
`` Receiving Shaaban in China is part of the above-mentioned work by the Chinese side , '' Mr Qin said , adding : `` China is also considering inviting Syrian opposition groups in the near term to China . '' 
China , along with fellow UN Security Council permanent member Russia , has vetoed UN resolutions condemning the violent crackdown by Mr Assad 's government . 
Correspondents say it wants to deflect criticism and show it is trying to develop a political solution to the Syrian crisis . 
The BBC 's Frank Gardner says the man who rebels claim they captured `` appears rather old for a fighter pilot '' In Syria , rebels clashed with government forces in the northern city of Aleppo and the capital Damascus on Monday , opposition groups said . 
Activist group the Local Co-ordination Committees said at least 64 people had been killed in Damascus and its suburbs . 
The UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said government forces had begun a new advance against rebels in Aleppo , which has seen fierce clashes in recent weeks . 
Syrian rebels also produced footage of a man they claim was the captured pilot of a fighter jet shot down in the east of the country . 
The Free Syrian Army -LRB- FSA -RRB- said it had shot the aircraft down near the Iraqi border . 
However , state media say the plane crashed because of `` technical problems '' and a search is under way to find the pilot . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir . 


Saudi Arabia , UAE , Qatar and Kuwait urge Lebanon exodus The al-Meqdad clan said they had acted to force the release of a man held in Damascus Four Arab states have urged their citizens to leave Lebanon amid signs that the conflict in Syria is spilling over into its western neighbor . 
Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates -LRB- UAE -RRB- , Qatar and Kuwait urged immediate action after a string of kidnappings of Sunni Muslims by a powerful Shia clan . 
They were retaliating for the abduction of a clan member by rebels in Damascus . 
Meanwhile , a summit of Islamic countries meeting in Mecca has suspended Syria 's membership . 
The Organisation of Islamic Co-operation 's secretary-general , Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu , said the body had no room for a regime that kills its own people . 
Correspondents say the move further isolates President Bashar al-Assad after the Arab League suspended Syria last November . 
Lebanese citizens were further caught up in the Syrian crisis on Wednesday when warplanes struck the town of Azaz north of Aleppo , reportedly killing 30 people . 
Among those reported wounded in the attack close to Syria 's border with Turkey were seven Lebanese hostages held by the rebels since May . 
Four more hostages were said to be missing after the building they were in was hit . 
After unconfirmed TV reports that the four had died , rioters were said to have burned tyres on the main road to Beirut airport and an Air France flight switched routes to Jordan `` for security reasons '' . 
The al-Meqdad clan said it had abducted more than 20 people it claimed were connected to Syrian rebels . 
A video broadcast by a pro-Syrian TV channel showed what it said were two of the men , apparently including a Free Syrian Army captain . 
Although most of the men abducted were Syrians , a Turkish businessman and a Saudi national were also reported to be among those seized . 
Syrian rebels say the man they seized in Damascus was fighting for the Syrian government on behalf of Lebanon 's Shia Hezbollah movement . 
A video of Hassan Salim al-Meqdad was released by his captors on Tuesday in which the captive , surrounded by three masked gunmen , says he was one of 1,500 Hezbollah fighters who arrived in Syria in early August . 
The statement was dismissed by his family - the al-Meqdad clan - as a lie . 
The BBC 's Kevin Connolly in Beirut says the clan , who are thought to be heavily involved in smuggling , have been described as a family with a military wing . 
The Lebanese president warned that spreading chaos would not help the hostages Saudi Arabia , Qatar and Turkey are all Sunni Muslim countries that support the Syrian rebels fighting the government of Bashar al-Assad . 
As the al-Meqdads threatened to carry out further abductions , the official Saudi news agency Spa quoted a foreign ministry official as saying Saudi citizens should avoid `` traveling to Lebanon for their own safety '' . 
A UAE foreign ministry official said it issued its alert after the embassy `` received information about UAE nationals being targeted and because of the difficult and sensitive circumstances in Lebanon '' , state news agency Wam reported . 
Lebanon is a popular tourist destination for Saudis and citizens of other Gulf states . 
The abductions were condemned by Lebanese Prime Minister Nagib Mikati and President Michel Suleiman . 
`` Spreading chaos in the country will not bring about the liberation of hostages . 
On the contrary , chaos could cause -LRB- the hostages -RRB- harm and threatens the sovereignty of the state , '' the president said . 
Like Syria 's other neighbors - Turkey , Iraq and Jordan - Lebanon has absorbed thousands of refugees fleeing from the conflict . 
But unlike the other countries , Lebanon risks being plunged into sectarian strife , possibly even a return to civil war , by the strains inflicted on its own delicate internal situation by the Syrian crisis , correspondents say . 
Last week , former information minister Michel Samaha was arrested and accused along with two Syrian military figures of plotting to destabilise Lebanon and incite sectarian fighting . 
Tripoli - Lebanon 's second city - has recently witnessed street gun battles between supporters and opponents of President Assad . 
Hopes for a negotiated settlement in Syria remain alive , despite regional tensions stoked by recent air strikes attributed to Israel , says Jim Muir .
